image:Elug_draft_icon.png[Image:Elug draft
icon.png,title="Image:Elug draft icon.png"] *For the latest EclipseLink
documentation, please see
http://www.eclipse.org/eclipselink/documentation/*

'''''

*TOC*
Special:Whatlinkshere_Acquiring_and_Using_Sessions_at_Run_Time_(ELUG)[Related
Topics]

After you create and configure sessions, you can use the session manager
to acquire a session instance at run time.

== Introduction to Session Acquisition

We recommend that you export session instances from the Workbench to one
or more uniquely named `+sessions.xml+` files and then use the session
manager to load sessions from these `+sessions.xml+` files.

The EclipseLink session manager lets you build a series of sessions that
are maintained under a single entity. The session manager is a static
utility class that loads EclipseLink sessions from the `+sessions.xml+`
file, caches the sessions by name in memory, and provides a single
access point for EclipseLink sessions. The session manager supports the
following session types:

* Server Session
* Database Session
* SessionBroker

See
link:Introduction%20to%20EclipseLink%20Sessions%20(ELUG)#CACJAFDF[Introduction
to EclipseLink Sessions] for detailed information on these available
sessions.

The session manager has two main functions: it creates instances of the
sessions and it ensures that only a single instance of each named
session exists for any instance of a session manager.

This is particularly useful for EJB applications in that an enterprise
bean can acquire the session manager and acquire the desired session
from it.

=== Session Manager

When a client application requires a session, it requests the session
from the EclipseLink session manager. The two main functions of the
session manager are to instantiate EclipseLink sessions for the server,
and to hold the sessions for the life of the application. The session
manager instantiates database sessions, server sessions, or session
brokers based on the configuration information in the `+sessions.xml+`
file.

The session manager instantiates sessions as follows:

* The client application requests a session by name.
* The session manager looks up the session name in the `+sessions.xml+`
file. If the session name exists, the session manager instantiates the
specified session; otherwise, it throws an exception.
* After instantiation, the session remains viable until the application
is shut down.

=== Multiple Sessions

We recommend that you acquire sessions from the session manager and
perform all persistence operations using a client session or the unit of
work.

Note that in the case of a server session or a session broker that
contains server sessions, after you acquire the session you will acquire
a client session from it. From a given server session (or session broker
that contains server sessions), you can acquire as many client sessions
as you have clients.

Each client can easily manage concurrent access and referential
constraints by acquiring a unit of work from its client session and
performing all persistence operations using the unit of work.

== Acquiring the Session Manager

EclipseLink maintains only one instance of the session manager class.
The singleton session manager maintains all the named EclipseLink
sessions at run time. When an application requests a session by name,
the session manager retrieves the specified session from the appropriate
configuration file.

As the link:#Example_86-1[Acquiring a Session Manager Instance] example
illustrates, to access the session manager instance, use the
`+org.eclipse.persistence.tools.sessionmanagement.SessionManager+`
method `+getManager+`. You can then use the session manager instance to
load EclipseLink sessions.

[#Example 86-1]## *_Acquiring a Session Manager Instance_*

[source,java]
----
 import org.eclipse.persistence.tools.sessionmanagement.SessionManager;
 SessionManager sessionManager = SessionManager.getManager();
----

== Acquiring a Session from the Session Manager

When the session manager loads a session that is not yet in its cache,
the session manager creates an instance of the appropriate session type
and configures it according to the `+sessions.xml+` file configuration.

[width="100%",cols="<100%",]
|===
|*Note:* To best use the methods associated with the session type that
is being instantiated, cast the session that is returned from the
`+getSession+` method. This type must match the session type that is
defined in the `+sessions.xml+` file for the named session.
|===

This section explains the following:

* link:#How_to_Load_a_Session_from_sessions.xml_Using_Defaults[How to
Load a Session from sessions.xml Using Defaults]
* link:#How_to_Load_a_Session_from_sessions.xml_with_an_Alternative_Class_Loader[How
to Load a Session from sessions.xml with an Alternative Class Loader]
* link:#How_to_Load_a_Session_from_an_Alternative_Session_Configuration_File[How
to Load a Session from an Alternative Session Configuration File]
* link:#How_to_Load_a_Session_Without_Logging_In[How to Load a Session
Without Logging In]
* link:#How_to_Reload_and_Refresh_Session_Configuration[How to Reload
and Refresh Session Configuration]
* link:#How_to_Refresh_a_Session_when_the_Class_Loader_Changes[How to
Refresh a Session when the Class Loader Changes]

=== How to Load a Session from sessions.xml Using Defaults

If you have a single sessions configuration file (`+sessions.xml+`) that
contains all the session instances created by the Workbench, then you
can load a session by name, as this example illustrates.

[#Example 86-2]## *_Acquiring a Named Session from Session Manager Using
Defaults_*

[source,java]
----
 // Load a named session (mysession) defined in the sessions.xml file
 SessionManager manager = SessionManager.getManager();
 Session session = manager.getSession("mysession");
----

In this example, the following session manager default configuration
applies:

* Class loader – The thread-based class loader is used to find and load
the `+sessions.xml+` resource and resolve any classes referenced in the
`+sessions.xml+` and `+project.xml+` files. If you acquire the session
in an application class, this will typically be the application’s class
loader, which is correct. In a Java EE application, it is best to
specify this as the class loader from a class in the same JAR file that
the `+sessions.xml+` file is deployed in.
* File – By default, the file named `+sessions.xml+` in the root
directory relative to the class loader is used. If the file is named
differently, or not in the root directory, the relative path must be
specified. Relative resource paths in Java must use `+" / "+`, not
`+" \ "+`.
* Session name – The name passed into the `+getSession+` call. This name
must be unique for the entire application server, not just unique within
the application.
* Login – `+true+`. The session will be connected by default. If you
must manually configure the session before login, set this option to
`+false+` (see link:#How_to_Load_a_Session_Without_Logging_In[How to
Load a Session Without Logging In]).
* Refresh – `+false+`. If already loaded, the same session will be
returned. Refresh should only be used, if it is known that the existing
session is not being used, and the configuration has changed, such as in
a Java EE environment redeployment scenario.
* Verify class loader – false. The session manager will not refresh the
session if the class loader changes. This should normally be set to
`+true+`. It must be set to `+true+` in a Java EE environment, if hot
deployment or redeployment to a running application server is required
(see link:#How_to_Refresh_a_Session_when_the_Class_Loader_Changes[How to
Refresh a Session when the Class Loader Changes]).

=== How to Load a Session from sessions.xml with an Alternative Class Loader

You can use an alternative class loader to load sessions. This is common
when your EclipseLink application integrates with a Java EE container.
The session manager uses the class loader to find and load the
`+sessions.xml+` resource and resolve any classes referenced in the
`+sessions.xml+` and `+project.xml+` files.

In most cases, you use the class loader from the current thread context,
as the link:#Example_86-3[Loading a Session Using the Current Thread
Context Class Loader] example illustrates. In this example, the session
named `+mysession+` is loaded from the first file in the application
classpath named `+sessions.xml+` using the class loader associated with
the current thread context.

[#Example 86-3]## *_Loading a Session Using the Current Thread Context
Class Loader_*

[source,java]
----
 /* Use the specified ClassLoader to load a session (mysession) defined in the sessions.xml file */

 SessionManager manager = SessionManager.getManager();
 Session session = manager.getSession(
     "mysession",  // session name to load
     Thread.current().getContextClassLoader() // ClassLoader instance to use
 );
----

However, if your Java EE container does not support using the current
thread context class loader, you can use the class loader from the
current class, as this example illustrates.

[#Example 86-4]## *_Loading a Session Using the Current Class’s Class
Loader_*

[source,java]
----
 /* Use the specified ClassLoader to load a session (mysession) defined in the sessions.xml file */
 SessionManager manager = SessionManager.getManager();
 Session session = manager.getSession(
     "mysession",  // session name to load
     this.getClass().getClassLoader() // ClassLoader instance to use
 );
----

[width="100%",cols="<100%",]
|===
|*Note*: Oracle Containers for J2EE supports the use of the class loader
from the current thread.
|===

=== How to Load a Session from an Alternative Session Configuration File

If your session instances are contained in multiple, uniquely named
session configuration files (`+sessions.xml+` files), then you must
explicitly create an `+XMLSessionConfigLoader+` object initialized with
the name of the `+sessions.xml+` file and pass that
`+XMLSessionConfigLoader+` into the `+SessionManager+` method
`+getSession+`, as the link:#Example_86-5[Loading a Session from an
Alternative Configuration File] example illustrates.

The file path you specify is relative to the class loader root
directory. Relative resource paths in Java must use the forward slash (
`+/+` ), not back slash ( `+\+` ).

In this example, the session named `+mysession+` is loaded by the
specified class loader from the first file in the application classpath
named `+eclipselink-sessions.xml+`.

[#Example 86-5]## *_Loading a Session from an Alternative Configuration
File_*

[source,java]
----
 // XMLSessionConfigLoader loads the eclipselink-sessions.xml file
 SessionManager manager = SessionManager.getManager();
 manager.getSession(
     new XMLSessionConfigLoader("eclipselink-sessions.xml"),
     "mysession",
     this.class.getClassLoader()
 );
----

=== How to Load a Session Without Logging In

The `+XMLSessionConfigLoader+` (see
link:#How_to_Load_a_Session_from_an_Alternative_Session_Configuration_File[How
to Load a Session from an Alternative Session Configuration File]) lets
you call a session using the `+SessionManager+` method `+getSession+`,
without invoking the `+Session+` method `+login+`, as the
link:#Example_86-6[Open Session with No Login] example shows. This lets
you prepare a session for use and leave login to the application.

[#Example 86-6]## *_Open Session with No Login_*

[source,java]
----
 SessionManager manager = SessionManager.getManager();
 Session session = manager.getSession(
     new XMLSessionConfigLoader(), // XMLSessionConfigLoader (sessions.xml file)
     "mysession", // session name
     YourApplicationClass.getClassLoader(), // class loader
     false, // do not log in session
     false); // do not refresh session
----

=== How to Reload and Refresh Session Configuration

You can tell the session manager to refresh an existing session from the
`+sessions.xml+` file. Typically, this would only ever be used in a Java
EE environment at redeployment time, or after a reset of a running
server. You should only use this option when you know that the existing
session is not being used.

[#Example 86-7]## *_Forcing a Reparse of the sessions.xml File_*

[source,java]
----
 //In this example, XMLSessionConfigLoader loads sessions.xml from the classpath
 SessionManager manager = SessionManager.getManager();
 Session session = manager.getSession(
     new XMLSessionConfigLoader(), // XMLSessionConfigLoader (sessions.xml file)
     "mysession", // session name
     YourApplicationClass.getClassLoader(), // class loader
     true, // log in session
     true  // refresh session
 );
----

=== How to Refresh a Session when the Class Loader Changes

In an unmanaged (POJO) Java EE environment, if you require hot
deployment or redeployment to a running application server, you must
tell the session manager to refresh your session if the class loader
changes, as the link:#Example_86-8[Forcing a Reparse of the sessions.xml
File] example shows. This option makes the session manager refresh the
session if the class loader changes, which occurs when the application
is redeployed. When this option is set to `+true+`, the same class
loader must always be used to retrieve the session.

[#Example 86-8]## *_Forcing a Reparse of the sessions.xml File_*

[source,java]
----
 //In this example, XMLSessionConfigLoader loads sessions.xml from the classpath
 SessionManager manager = SessionManager.getManager();
 Session session = manager.getSession(
     new XMLSessionConfigLoader(), // XMLSessionConfigLoader (sessions.xml file)
     "mysession", // session name
     YourApplicationClass.getClassLoader(), // class loader
     true,   // log in session'''
     false,  // do not refresh session when loaded
     true    // do refresh session if class loader changes
 );
----

== Acquiring a Client Session

Before you can acquire a client session, you must first use the session
manager to acquire a server session or a session broker that contains
server sessions (see
link:#Acquiring_a_Session_from_the_Session_Manager[Acquiring a Session
from the Session Manager]).

This table summarizes the methods used to acquire various types of
client sessions from a server session and a session broker session that
contains server sessions.

[#Table 86-1]## *_Method Used to Acquire a Client Session_*

[width="100%",cols="<22%,<40%,<38%",options="header",]
|===
|*Client Session* |*Server Session Method* |*Session Broker Session
Method*
|Regular or Isolated |`+acquireClientSession()+`
|`+acquireClientSessionBroker()+`

|Regular or Isolated |`+acquireClientSession(ConnectionPolicy)+` |_not
applicable_

|Historical |`+acquireHistoricalSession(AsOfClause)+`
|`+acquireHistoricalSession(AsOfClause)+`
|===

The `+acquireClientSession+` method returns a session of type
`+ClientSession+`.

The `+acquireClientSessionBroker+` method returns a session of type
`+SessionBroker+`.

In both cases, you should cast the returned object to type `+Session+`
and use it as you would any other session.

For more information, see the following:

* link:#How_to_Acquire_an_Isolated_Client_Session[ow to Acquire an
Isolated Client Session]
* link:#Acquiring_a_Historical_Session[Acquiring a Historical Session]
* link:#How_to_Acquire_a_Client_Session_that_Uses_Exclusive_Connections[How
to Acquire a Client Session that Uses Exclusive Connections]
* link:#How_to_Acquire_a_Client_Session_that_Uses_Connection_Properties[ow
to Acquire a Client Session that Uses Connection Properties]
* link:#How_to_Acquire_a_Client_Session_that_Uses_a_Named_Connection_Pool[How
to Acquire a Client Session that Uses a Named Connection Pool]
* link:#How_to_Acquire_a_Client_Session_that_Does_Not_Use_Lazy_Connection_Allocation[How
to Acquire a Client Session that Does Not Use Lazy Connection
Allocation]

=== How to Acquire an Isolated Client Session

If in your EclipseLink project you configure all classes as isolated
(see
link:Configuring%20a%20Project%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Cache_Isolation_at_the_Project_Level[Configuring
Cache Isolation at the Project Level]), or one or more classes as
isolated (see
link:Configuring%20a%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Cache_Isolation_at_the_Descriptor_Level[Configuring
Cache Isolation at the Descriptor Level]), then all client sessions that
you acquire from a parent server session will be isolated client
sessions (see
link:Introduction%20to%20EclipseLink%20Sessions%20(ELUG)#Isolated_Client_Sessions[Isolated
Client Sessions]).

Using a `+ConnectionPolicy+`, you can acquire an isolated client session
that uses exclusive connections (see
link:#How_to_Acquire_a_Client_Session_that_Uses_Exclusive_Connections[How
to Acquire a Client Session that Uses Exclusive Connections]). This
isolated client session can be configured with connection properties for
use with the Oracle Virtual Private Database (VPD) feature (see
link:#How_to_Acquire_a_Client_Session_that_Uses_Connection_Properties[How
to Acquire a Client Session that Uses Connection Properties]).
Typically, you use Oracle Database proxy authentication to pass user
credentials to the Oracle Database. For more information about Oracle
Database proxy authentication, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Data%20Access%20(ELUG)#Oracle_Database_Proxy_Authentication[Oracle
Database Proxy Authentication].

For more information about VPD, see
link:Introduction%20to%20EclipseLink%20Sessions%20(ELUG)#Isolated_Client_Sessions_and_Oracle_Virtual_Private_Database_(VPD)[Isolated
Client Sessions and Oracle Virtual Private Database (VPD)].

=== How to Acquire a Client Session that Uses Exclusive Connections

This example illustrates how to configure a `+ConnectionPolicy+` and use
it to acquire a client session that uses exclusive connections.

[#Example 86-9]## *_Acquiring a Client Session that Uses Connection
Properties_*

[source,java]
----
 ConnectionPolicy connectionPolicy = new ConnectionPolicy();
 // Use an exclusive connection for the session
 connectionPolicy.setShouldUseExclusiveConnection(true);

 Session clientSession = server.acquireClientSession(connectionPolicy);
 // By default, an exclusive connection will be acquired lazily
----

An exclusive connection is allocated from a shared connection pool. The
connection is dedicated to the client session that acquires it.

Note: Typically, the life cycle of a client session is the duration of a
server request. However, if you are using JTA, it is the life cycle of a
JTA transaction.

You cannot hold the client session across the JTA transaction
boundaries. If you are not using a unit of work in your transaction and
you are configuring a client session to use an exclusive connection (see
Configuring Exclusive Isolated Client Sessions for Virtual Private
Database), you must explicitly acquire and release the session when you
are finished using it. Although client sessions have a finalizer that
would release the session when it is garbage-collected, you must not
rely on the finalizer and release the exclusive client session (or a
non-lazy session) in the application to release the data source
connection. Note that the requirement to release the session is not
JTA-specific.

If you are using a unit of work (see Using Advanced Unit of Work API),
you do not have to worry about releasing its client session as the unit
of work always automatically releases it at the end of the JTA
transaction.

A named query can also use an exclusive connection (see
link:Configuring%20a%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)[Configuring Named Query
Advanced Options]).

For more information, see the following:

* link:#How_to_Acquire_a_Client_Session_that_Does_Not_Use_Lazy_Connection_Allocation[How
to Acquire a Client Session that Does Not Use Lazy Connection
Allocation]
* link:Configuring%20a%20Session%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Connection_Policy[Configuring
Connection Policy]

=== How to Acquire a Client Session that Uses Connection Properties

The link:#Example_86-10[Acquiring an Isolated Session Using Connection
Properties] example illustrates how to configure a `+ConnectionPolicy+`
and use it to acquire a client session that uses connection properties.
In this example, the properties are used by the Oracle VPD feature (see
link:Introduction%20to%20EclipseLink%20Sessions%20(ELUG)#Isolated_Client_Sessions_and_Oracle_Virtual_Private_Database_(VPD)[Isolated
Client Sessions and Oracle Virtual Private Database (VPD)]). You can use
connection properties for other application purposes.

[#Example 86-10]## *_Acquiring an Isolated Session Using Connection
Properties_*

[source,java]
----
 ConnectionPolicy connectionPolicy = new ConnectionPolicy();
 // Set VPD specific properties to be used in the events
 connectionPolicy.setProperty("userLevel", new Integer(5));

 Session clientSession = server.acquireClientSession(connectionPolicy);
----

For more information, see
link:Configuring%20a%20Session%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Connection_Policy[Configuring
Connection Policy].

=== How to Acquire a Client Session that Uses a Named Connection Pool

Before you can acquire a client session that uses a named connection
pool, you must configure your session with a named connection pool. For
more information on named connection pools, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Data%20Access%20(ELUG)[Application-Specific
Connection Pools]. For more information on creating a named connection
pool, see
link:Creating%20an%20Internal%20Connection%20Pool%20(ELUG)[Introduction
to the Internal Connection Pool Creation].

To acquire a client session that uses a named connection pool, use
`+Server+` method `+acquireClientSession+`, passing in a
`+ConnectionPolicy+` configured with the desired connection pool. The
acquired `+ClientSession+` uses connections from the specified pool for
writes (reads still go through the `+Server+` read connection pool).

This example illustrates how to configure a `+ConnectionPolicy+` to
specify a named connection pool named `+myConnectionPool+`.

[#Example 86-11]## *_Acquiring a Client Session that Uses a Named
Connection Pool_*

[source,java]
----
 // Assuming you created a connection pool named "myConnectionPool"
 Session clientSession = server.acquireClientSession(
     new ConnectionPolicy("myConnectionPool")
 );
----

For more information, see
link:Configuring%20a%20Session%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Connection_Policy[Configuring
Connection Policy].

=== How to Acquire a Client Session that Does Not Use Lazy Connection Allocation

By default, the server session does not allocate a data source
connection for a client session until a transaction starts (a lazy data
source connection). Alternatively, you can acquire a client session that
allocates a connection immediately.

This example illustrates how to configure a `+ConnectionPolicy+` to
specify that lazy connection allocation is not used.

[#Example 86-12]## *_Acquiring a Client Session that Does Not Use Lazy
Connections_*

[source,java]
----
 ConnectionPolicy connectionPolicy = new ConnectionPolicy();
 connectionPolicy.setIsLazy(false);
 Session clientSession = server.acquireClientSession(connectionPolicy);
----

For more information, see
link:Configuring%20a%20Session%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Connection_Policy[Configuring
Connection Policy].

== Acquiring a Historical Session

After you configure EclipseLink to access historical data (see
link:Configuring%20Historical%20Sessions%20(ELUG)#Introduction_to_Historical_Session_Configuration[Introduction
to Historical Session Configuration]), you can query historical data
using any session type.

When you query historical data using a regular client session or
database session, you must always set `+ObjectLevelReadQuery+` method
`+maintainCache+` to `+false+` in order to prevent old (historical) data
from corrupting the session cache. However, you can query both current
and historical object versions.

As a convenience, EclipseLink provides a historical session to simplify
this process. When you query historical data using a historical session,
you do not need to set `+ObjectLevelReadQuery+` method `+maintainCache+`
to `+false+`. However, you can query objects only as of the specified
time.

Before you can acquire a historical session, you must first use the
session manager to acquire a server session.

To acquire a historical session, use `+Server+` method
`+acquireHistoricalSession+` passing in an `+AsOfClause+`.

The `+AsOfClause+` specifies a point in time that applies to all queries
and expressions subsequently executed on the historical session. The
historical session’s cache is a read-only snapshot of object versions as
of the specified time. Its cache is isolated from its parent server
session’s shared object cache.

== Logging In to a Session

Before you can use a session, you must first log in to the session using
`+Session+` method `+login+`.

By default, when you load a session using the session manager,
EclipseLink automatically logs in to the session using the zero-argument
`+login+` method. For information on loading a session without
automatically logging into the session, see
link:#How_to_Load_a_Session_Without_Logging_In[How to Load a Session
Without Logging In].

If you load a session without logging in, you can choose from the
following signatures of the `+login+` method:

* `+login()+`: Use the Login, user name, and password defined in the
corresponding `+sessions.xml+` file.
* `+login(Login login)+`: Override the `+Login+` defined in the
corresponding `+sessions.xml+` file with the specified `+Login+`.
* `+login(String username, String password)+`: Override the user name
and password defined in the corresponding `+sessions.xml+` file with the
specified user name and password.

When you log in to a session broker, the session broker logs in all
contained sessions and initializes the descriptors in the sessions.
After login, the session broker appears and functions as a regular
session. EclipseLink handles the multiple database access transparently.

== Using Session API

For more information on using session API, for caching, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Cache%20(ELUG)[Introduction to Cache].

For more information on using session API for queries, see
link:Introduction%20to%20EclipseLink%20Queries%20(ELUG)[Introduction to
EclipseLink Queries].

For more information on using session API for transactions, see
link:Introduction%20to%20EclipseLink%20Transactions_(ELUG)[Introduction
to EclipseLink Transactions].

== Logging Out of a Session

When you are finished using a server session, session broker session, or
database session, you must log out of the session using `+Session+`
method `+logout+`. Logging out of a session broker session logs out of
all sessions registered with the session broker.

When you are finished using a client session, you must release the
session using `+Session+` method `+release+`.

You can configure a `+Session+` with a finalizer to release the session
using `+Session+` method `+setIsFinalizersEnabled(true)+`. By default,
finalizers are disabled. If you choose to enable a finalizer for a
session, you should do so only as a last resort. We recommend that you
always log out of or release your sessions.

== Storing Sessions in the Session Manager Instance

Although we recommend that you export all session instances from the
Workbench to one or more `+sessions.xml+` files, alternatively, you can
manually create a session in your application and, as the
link:#Example_86-13[Storing Sessions Manually in the Session Manager]
example illustrates, manually store it in the session manager using
`+SessionManager+` method `+addSession+`. Then, you can acquire a
session by name using the `+SessionManager+` method `+getSession+`.

[width="100%",cols="<100%",]
|===
|*Note*: The `+addSession+` method is not necessary if you are loading
sessions from a session configuration file.
|===

[#Example 86-13]## *_Storing Sessions Manually in the Session Manager_*

[source,java]
----
 // create and log in to the session programmatically
 Session theSession = project.createDatabaseSession();
 theSession.login();
 // store the session in the SessionManager instance
 SessionManager manager = SessionManager.getManager();
 manager.addSession("mysession", theSession);
 // retrieve the session
 Session session = SessionManager.getManager().getSession("mysession");
----

== Destroying Sessions in the Session Manager Instance

You can destroy sessions individually by name or destroy all sessions.

[width="100%",cols="<100%",]
|===
|*Note:* You should only do this when a Java EE application is
un-deployed, or when the entire application is shut down and only when
it is known that the session is no longer in use. You should log out of
a session before destroying it (see
link:#Logging_Out_of_a_Session[Logging Out of a Session]). If you do not
log out of a session, the session manager will at the time you use it to
destroy a session.
|===

To destroy one session instance by name, use `+SessionManager+` method
`+destroySession+`, as the link:#Example_86-14[Destroying a Session in
the Session Manager] example illustrates. If the specified session is
not in the session manager cache, a `+ValidationException+` is thrown.

[#Example 86-14]## *_Destroying a Session in the Session Manager_*

[source,java]
----
 SessionManager manager = SessionManager.getManager();
 Server server = (Server) manager.getSession("myserversession");
 …
 // Destroy session by name. If the session named myserversession is not in the
 // session manager cache, throw a ValidationException'''
 manager.destroySession("myserversession");
----

To destroy all session instances, use the `+SessionManager+` method
`+destoryAllSessions+`, as this example illustrates.

[#Example 86-15]## *_Destroying All Sessions in the Session Manager_*

[source,java]
----
 SessionManager manager = SessionManager.getManager();
 Server server = (Server) manager.getSession("myserversession");
 SessionBroker broker = (SessionBroker) manager.getSession("mysessionbroker");
 …
 // Destroy all sessions stored in the session manager
 manager.destroyAllSessions();
----

>

'''''

_link:EclipseLink_User's_Guide_Copyright_Statement[Copyright Statement]_

Category:_EclipseLink_User's_Guide[Category: EclipseLink User’s Guide]
Category:_Release_1[Category: Release 1] Category:_Task[Category: Task]
