*TOC*
Special:Whatlinkshere_Configuring_a_JMS_Coordinated_Cache_(ELUG)[Related
Topics]

[#Table 100-1]## *_Configurable Options for a JMS Coordinated Cache_*

Option to Configure

EclipseLink Workbench

Java

Cache coordination change propagation at the descriptor level

Synchronous change propagation mode

JNDI naming service information

Topic name

Topic connection factory name

Topic host URL

Connection handling

Context properties

Packet time-to-live

== Configuring a Topic Name

A JMS topic identifies a publish/subscribe destination for a JMS server.
JMS users who wish to share messages subscribe to the same JMS topic.

The topic name you configure is the name that EclipseLink uses to look
up the `+javax.jms.Topic+` instance from the JNDI service. You must
provide a fully qualified JNDI name, such as
`+jms/<+`_`+topic_name+`_`+>+`.

All the members of the same JMS coordinated cache must use the same JMS
topic.

=== How to Configure a Topic Name Using Workbench

To specify the topic name for JMS cache coordination, use this
procedure:

[arabic]
. Select a server session in the *Navigator*. Its properties appear in
the Editor.
. Click the *Cache Coordination* tab. The Cache Coordination tab
appears.
. Ensure *Enable Cache Coordination* is selected and the *Type* is *JMS*
(see link:Introduction%20to%20Cache%20(ELUG)#Cache_Coordination[Cache
Coordination] for more information). [#Figure 100-1]##*_Cache
Coordination Tab, Topic Name Field, JMS_* image:jmsclutn.gif[Cache
Coordination Tab, Topic Name Field,
JMS,title="Cache Coordination Tab, Topic Name Field, JMS"]
. Enter the topic name to use with the JMS coordinated cache for this
session. This must be a fully qualified JNDI name, such as `+jms/+`__.

Enter the topic name to use with the JMS coordinated cache for this
session. This must be a fully qualified JNDI name, such as `+jms/+`__.

=== How to Configure a Topic Name Using Java

Use the
`+org.eclipse.persistence.sessions.coordination.broadcast.BroadcastTransportManager+`
method `+setTopicName+` to configure the Topic name for the Topic to
which this transport manager will be connecting.

You obtain the `+BroadcastTransportManager+` using the following
`+Session+` API:

`+Session.getCommandManager().getTransportManager()+`

== Configuring a Topic Connection Factory Name

A JMS topic connection factory creates connections with the JMS provider
for a specific JMS destination. Each connection factory contains the
specific configuration information to create a connection to a JMS
destination.

The topic connection factory name you configure is the name that
EclipseLink uses to look up the `+javax.jms.TopicConnectionFactory+`
instance from the JNDI service. This must be a fully qualified JNDI
name, such as `+jms/<+`_`+resource_name+`_`+>+`.

=== How to Configure a Topic Connection Factory Name Using Workbench

To specify the topic connection factory for a JMS coordinated cache, use
this procedure:

[arabic]
. Select a server session in the *Navigator*. Its properties appear in
the Editor.
. Click the *Cache Coordination* tab. The Cache Coordination tab
appears.
. Ensure *Enable Cache Coordination* is selected and the *Type* is *JMS*
(see link:Introduction%20to%20Cache%20(ELUG)#Cache_Coordination[Cache
Coordination] for more information). [#Figure 100-2]##*_Cache
Coordination Tab, Topic Connection Factory Name Field_*
image:jmscluto.gif[Cache Coordination Tab, Topic Connection Factory Name
Field,title="Cache Coordination Tab, Topic Connection Factory Name Field"]
. Enter the topic connection factory name to use with the JMS
coordinated cache for this session. This must be a fully qualified JNDI
name, such as `+jms/+`__.

Enter the topic connection factory name to use with the JMS coordinated
cache for this session. This must be a fully qualified JNDI name, such
as `+jms/+`__.

=== How to Configure a Topic Connection Factory Name Using Java

Use the
`+org.eclipse.persistence.sessions.coordination.jms.JMSTopicTransportManager+`
method `+setTopicConnectionFactoryName+` to configure the the JMS Topic
connection factory name for the JMS Topic connections.

You obtain the `+JMSTopicTransportManager+` using the following
`+Session+` API:

`+Session.getCommandManager().getTransportManager()+`

== Configuring a Topic Host URL

The JMS topic host URL is the URL of the machine on the network that
hosts the JMS topic (see link:#Configuring_a_Topic_Name[Configuring a
Topic Name]).

=== How to Configure a Topic Host URL Using Workbench

To specify the topic host URL for a JMS coordinated cache, use this
procedure:

[arabic]
. Select a server session in the *Navigator*. Its properties appear in
the Editor.
. Click the *Cache Coordination* tab. The Cache Coordination tab
appears.
. Ensure *Enable Cache Coordination* is selected and the *Type* is *JMS*
(see link:Introduction%20to%20Cache%20(ELUG)#Cache_Coordination[Cache
Coordination] for more information). [#Figure 100-3]##*_Cache
Coordination Tab, Topic Host URL Field_* image:jmsurl.gif[Cache
Coordination Tab, Topic Host URL
Field,title="Cache Coordination Tab, Topic Host URL Field"]

Enter the URL of the machine on the network that hosts the JMS topic
(see link:#Configuring_a_Topic_Name[Configuring a Topic Name]) to use
with the JMS coordinated cache for this session.

=== How to Configure a Topic Host URL Using Java

Use the
`+org.eclipse.persistence.sessions.coordination.jms.JMSTopicTransportManager+`
method `+setTopicHostUrl+` to configure the URL of the computer on the
network that hosts the JMS Topic.

You obtain the `+JMSTopicTransportManager+` using the following
`+Session+` API:

`+Session.getCommandManager().getTransportManager()+`

== Configuring Connection Handling

The session’s transport manager creates connections to the various
members of the coordinated cache. If a communication error occurs on one
of these connections, you can configure the session to either ignore the
error or remove the connection.

If you configure the session to remove the connection on error, the next
time the session tries to communicate with that coordinated cache
member, it will construct a new connection. If an error occurs during
the connection creation phase, EclipseLink will either throw a
`+RemoteCommandManagerException.ERROR_CREATING_JMS_CONNECTION+` (if the
error occurred while sending a message) or a
`+RemoteCommandManagerException.ERROR_CREATING_LOCAL_JMS_CONNECTION+`
(if the error occurred while receiving a message). If you want to
recover from this failure, consider the following options:

* You may choose to take no action: messages will not be sent or
received.
* You may choose to handle the exception. You may do so by changing some
of the
`+org.eclipse.persistence.sessions.coordination.jms.JMSTopicTransportManager+`
settings and calling the `+createExternalConnection+` or
`+createInternalConnection+` method of the `+JMSTopicTransportManager+`.

If you configure the session to ignore the error, the next time the
session tries to communicate with that coordinated cache member, it will
continue to use the same connection. In this case, if the listening
(local) connection gets a
`+RemoteCommandManagerException.ERROR_RECEIVING_JMS_MESSAGE+` exception,
the coordinated cache waits for 10 seconds before resuming listening. If
you want to recover from this failure, consider the following options:

* You may choose to take no action (wait for the connection recovery).
* You may choose to handle the
`+RemoteCommandManagerException.ERROR_PROPAGATING_COMMAND+` or
`+RemoteCommandManagerException.ERROR_RECEIVING_JMS_MESSAGE+` exception.
You may do so by shutting down the remote command manager.

In either case, if the coordinated cache receives a null JMS message, it
will throw a
`+RemoteCommandManagerException.ERROR_RECEIVED_JMS_MESSAGE_IS_NULL+`
exception.

=== How to Configure Connection Handling Using Workbench

To specify how EclipseLink handles session connections in the event of
an error, use this procedure:

[arabic]
. Select a session or session broker in the *Navigator*. Its properties
appear in the Editor.
. Click the *Cache Coordination* tab. The Cache Coordination tab
appears.
. Ensure the *Enable Cache Coordination* option is selected, then select
the appropriate coordinated cache *Type* (JMS). The cache coordination
options appear on the tab. [#Figure 100-4]##*_Cache Coordination Tab,
Remove Connection on Error Option_* image:clonerr.gif[Cache Coordination
Tab, Remove Connection on Error
Option,title="Cache Coordination Tab, Remove Connection on Error Option"]
. Select the *Remove Connection on Error* option to configure the
session to remove the data source connection in the event of an error.

=== How to Configure Connection Handling Using Java

Use the
`+org.eclipse.persistence.sessions.coordination.TransportManager+`
method `+setShouldRemoveConnectionOnError+` to define whether
connections to remote services should be disconnected when an error
occurs.

You obtain the `+TransportManager+` using the following `+Session+` API:

`+Session.getCommandManager().getTransportManager()+`

'''''

_link:EclipseLink_User's_Guide_Copyright_Statement[Copyright Statement]_

Category:_EclipseLink_User's_Guide[Category: EclipseLink User’s Guide]
Category:_Release_1[Category: Release 1] Category:_Task[Category: Task]
