image:Elug_draft_icon.png[Image:Elug draft
icon.png,title="Image:Elug draft icon.png"] *For the latest EclipseLink
documentation, please see
http://www.eclipse.org/eclipselink/documentation/*

'''''

*TOC*
Special:Whatlinkshere_Configuring_a_Coordinated_Cache_(ELUG)[Related
Topics]

[#Table 99-1]## *_Configuring EclipseLink Coordinated Caches_*

If you are configuring a…

See…

JMS Coordinated Cache

Configuring a JMS Coordinated Cache

RMI Coordinated Cache

Configuring an RMI Coordinated Cache

CORBA Coordinated Cache

Configuring a CORBA Coordinated Cache

Custom Coordinated Cache

Configuring a Custom Coordinated Cache

For more information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Cache%20(ELUG)#Cache_Coordination[Cache
Coordination].

== Configuring Common Coordinated Cache Options

This table lists the configurable options shared by two or more
EclipseLink coordinated cache types. In addition, you must configure the
options described for specific
link:Introduction%20to%20Cache%20(ELUG)#Coordinated_Cache_Types[Coordinated
Cache Types], as shown in the link:#Table_99-1[Configuring EclipseLink
Coordinated Caches] table.

[#Table 99-2]## *_Common Coordinated Cache Options_*

Option to Configure

Workbench

Java

Cache coordination change propagation at the descriptor level

Synchronous change propagation mode

Service channel

Multicast group address

Multicast port

Naming service type

Announcement delay

Connection handling

Context properties

Packet time-to-live

== Configuring the Synchronous Change Propagation Mode

You can configure whether the coordinated cache should propagate object
changes asynchronously or synchronously.

The following table summarizes which coordinated caches support
propagation mode configuration.

[#Table 99-3]## *_Coordinated Cache Support for Propagation Mode
Configuration_*

Coordinated Cache

Using Workbench

Using Java

JMS Coordinated Cache (asynchronous only)

RMI Coordinated Cache

CORBA Coordinated Cache

Oracle Application Server 10g Cluster Coordinated Cache

Custom Coordinated Cache

Synchronous propagation mode forces the session to wait for an
acknowledgement before sending the next object change notification: this
reduces the likelihood of stale data at the expense of performance.

Asynchronous propagation mode allows the session to create separate
threads to propagate changes to remote servers. EclipseLink returns
control to the client immediately after the local commit operation,
whether or not the changes merge successfully on the remote servers.
This offers superior performance for applications that are somewhat
tolerant of stale data.

For more information,
link:Introduction%20to%20Cache%20(ELUG)#Handling_Stale_Data[Handling
Stale Data].

=== How to Configure the Synchronous Change Propagation Mode Using Workbench

To specify the change propagation mode, use this procedure:

[arabic]
. Select a session or session broker in the *Navigator*. Its properties
appear in the Editor.
. Click the *Cache Coordination* tab. The Cache Coordination tab
appears.
. Ensure the *Enable Cache Coordination* option is selected, then select
the appropriate coordinated cache *Type* (see the
link:#Table_99-4[Coordinated Cache Support for Propagation Mode
Configuration] table). The cache coordination options appear on the tab.
*_Cache Coordination Tab, Synchronous Field_* image:sesrmisy.gif[Cache
Coordination Tab, Synchronous
Field,title="Cache Coordination Tab, Synchronous Field"]
. Select the *Synchronous* option to use synchronous change propagation.
Do not select this option to use asynchronous change propagation.

=== How to Configure the Synchronous Change Propagation Mode Using Java

Use the
`+org.eclipse.persistence.sessions.coordination.RemoteCommandManager+`
method `+setShouldPropagateAsynchronously+` to define whether changes
should be propagated synchronously or asynchronously for this
coordinated cache.

For more information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Cache%20(ELUG)#Cache_Coordination_API[Cache
Coordination API].

== Configuring a Service Channel

The *service channel* is the name of the EclipseLink coordinated cache
channel to which sessions subscribe in order to participate in the same
coordinated cache. Such sessions use the service channel to exchange
messages with each other. Messages sent on other service channels will
not be exchanged with this coordinated cache.

This table summarizes which coordinated caches support service channel
configuration.

[#Table 99-4]## *_Coordinated Cache Support for Service Channel
Configuration_*

Coordinated Cache

Using Workbench

Using Java

JMS Coordinated Cache

RMI Coordinated Cache

CORBA Coordinated Cache

Oracle Application Server 10g Cluster Coordinated Cache

Custom Coordinated Cache

=== How to Configure a Service Channel Using Workbench

To specify the service channel, use this procedure:

[arabic]
. Select a session or session broker in the *Navigator*. Its properties
appear in the Editor.
. Click the *Cache Coordination* tab. The Cache Coordination tab
appears.
. Ensure the *Enable Cache Coordination* option is selected, then select
the appropriate coordinated cache *Type* (see the
link:#Table_99-4[Coordinated Cache Support for Service Channel
Configuration] table). The cache coordination options appear on the tab.
*_Cache Coordination Tab, Channel Field_* image:cachchannel.gif[Cache
Coordination Tab, Channel
Field,title="Cache Coordination Tab, Channel Field"]
. In the *Channel* field, enter the name of the service channel for this
coordinated cache.

=== How to Configure a Service Channel Using Java

Use the
`+org.eclipse.persistence.sessions.coordination.RemoteCommandManager+`
method `+setChannel+` to set the name of the service channel for this
coordinated cache.

For more information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Cache%20(ELUG)#Cache_Coordination_API[Cache
Coordination API].

== Configuring a Multicast Group Address

A multicast group address is an Internet Protocol (IP) address in the
range 224.0.0.0 to 239.255.255.255 that identifies the members of an IP
multicast group. To efficiently broadcast the same message to all
members of an IP multicast group, you configure each recipient with the
same multicast group address and send the message to that address.

This table summarizes which coordinated caches support multicast group
address configuration.

[#Table 99-5]## *_Coordinated Cache Support for Multicast Group Address
Configuration_*

Coordinated Cache

Using Workbench

Using Java

JMS Coordinated Cache

RMI Coordinated Cache

CORBA Coordinated Cache

Oracle Application Server 10g Cluster Coordinated Cache

Custom Coordinated Cache

[width="100%",cols="<100%",]
|===
|*Note:* Ensure your host and network are configured to support
multicast operation before configuring this option.
|===

In addition to configuring the multicast group address, you must also
configure the multicast port (see
link:#Configuring_a_Multicast_Port[Configuring a Multicast Port]) for
the coordinated cache types shown in the link:#Table_99-5[Coordinated
Cache Support for Multicast Group Address Configuration] table.

=== How to Configure a Multicast Group Address Using Workbench

To specify the multicast group address, use this procedure:

[arabic]
. Select a session or session broker in the *Navigator*. Its properties
appear in the Editor.
. Click the *Cache Coordination* tab. The Cache Coordination tab
appears.
. Ensure the *Enable Cache Coordination* option is selected, then select
the appropriate coordinated cache *Type* (see the
link:#Table_99-5[Coordinated Cache Support for Multicast Group Address
Configuration] table). The cache coordination options appear on the tab.
*_Cache Coordination Tab, Multicast Group Address Field_*
image:rmiclumg.gif[Cache Coordination Tab, Multicast Group Address
Field,title="Cache Coordination Tab, Multicast Group Address Field"]
. Enter the multicast group address in the range 224.0.0.0 to
239.255.255.255 to subscribe this session to a given coordinated cache.

=== How to Configure a Multicast Group Address Using Java

Use the
`+org.eclipse.persistence.sessions.coordination.DiscoveryManager+`
method `+setMulticastGroupAddress+` to subscribe this session to a given
coordinated cache. Ensure that the address falls in the range 224.0.0.0
to 239.255.255.255.

For more information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Cache%20(ELUG)#Cache_Coordination_API[Cache
Coordination API].

== Configuring a Multicast Port

The multicast port is the port on which multicast messages are received.
Members of a multicast group (see
link:#Configuring_a_Multicast_Group_Address[Configuring a Multicast
Group Address]) rely on messages broadcast to their multicast group
address to communicate with one another.

This table summarizes which coordinated caches support multicast port
configuration.

[#Table 99-6]## *_Coordinated Cache Support for Multicast Port
Configuration_*

Coordinated Cache

Using Workbench

Using Java

JMS Coordinated Cache

RMI Coordinated Cache

CORBA Coordinated Cache

Oracle Application Server 10g Cluster Coordinated Cache

Custom Coordinated Cache

[width="100%",cols="<100%",]
|===
|*Note:* Ensure your host and network are configured to support
multicast operation before configuring this option
|===

=== How to Configure a Multicast Port Using Workbench

To specify the multicast port, use this procedure:

[arabic]
. Select a session or session broker in the *Navigator*. Its properties
appear in the Editor.
. Click the *Cache Coordination* tab. The Cache Coordination tab
appears.
. Ensure the *Enable Cache Coordination* option is selected, then select
the appropriate coordinated cache *Type* (see the
link:#Table_99-6[Coordinated Cache Support for Multicast Port
Configuration] table). The cache coordination options appear on the tab.
*_Cache Coordination Tab, Multicast Port Field_*
image:rmiclump.gif[Cache Coordination Tab, Multicast Port
Field,title="Cache Coordination Tab, Multicast Port Field"]
. Enter the multicast port on which messages broadcast to the multicast
group address are received.

=== How to Configure a Multicast Port Using Java

Use the
`+org.eclipse.persistence.sessions.coordination.DiscoveryManager+`
method `+setMulticastPort+` to define the multicast port on which
messages broadcast to the multicast group address are to be received.

For more information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Cache%20(ELUG)#Cache_Coordination_API[Cache
Coordination API].

== Configuring a Naming Service Type

The session’s message transport service uses a naming service when it
looks up connections to other sessions in the coordinated cache. You can
configure the message transport service to look up remote objects using
an RMI registry or Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI). By
default, JNDI is used.

This table summarizes which coordinated caches support naming service
configuration.

[#Table 99-7]## *_Coordinated Cache Support for Naming Service
Configuration_*

Coordinated Cache

JNDI Naming Service

RMI Registry Naming Service

JMS Coordinated Cache

RMI Coordinated Cache

CORBA Coordinated Cache

Oracle Application Server 10g Cluster Coordinated Cache

Custom Coordinated Cache

== Configuring JNDI Naming Service Information

The session’s message transport service uses a naming service when it
looks up connections to other sessions in the coordinated cache. If you
choose to use a JNDI naming service, you must configure JNDI naming
service information.

This table summarizes which coordinated caches support JNDI naming
service configuration.

[#Table 99-8]## *_Coordinated Cache Support for JNDI Naming Service
Configuration_*

Coordinated Cache

Using Workbench

Using Java

JMS Coordinated Cache

RMI Coordinated Cache

CORBA Coordinated Cache

Oracle Application Server 10g Cluster Coordinated Cache

Custom Coordinated Cache

EclipseLink uses JNDI naming service information differently, depending
on the type of coordinated cache.

For a JMS coordinated cache, when a particular session’s coordinated
cache starts up, it uses its JNDI naming service information to locate
and create a connection to the JMS server. The coordinated cache is
ready when all participating sessions are connected to the JMS server.
At this point, sessions can start sending and receiving object change
messages. You can then configure all sessions that are participating in
the same coordinated cache with the same JNDI naming service
information.

For an RMI or CORBA coordinated cache, when a particular session’s
coordinated cache starts up, the session binds its connection in JNDI,
creates an announcement message (that includes its own JNDI naming
service information), and broadcasts the announcement to its multicast
group (see link:#Configuring_a_Multicast_Group_Address[Configuring a
Multicast Group Address] and
link:#Configuring_a_Multicast_Port[Configuring a Multicast Port]). When
a session that belongs to the same multicast group receives this
announcement, it uses the JNDI naming service information in the
announcement message to establish bidirectional connections with the
newly announced session’s coordinated cache. The coordinated cache is
ready when all participating sessions are interconnected in this way, at
which point, sessions can start sending and receiving object change
messages. You can then configure each session with JNDI naming
information that identifies the host on which the session is deployed.

=== How to Configure JNDI Naming Service Information Using Workbench

To specify the sessions’s JNDI naming service, use this procedure:

[arabic]
. Select a session or session broker in the *Navigator*. Its properties
appear in the Editor.
. Click the *Cache Coordination* tab. The Cache Coordination tab
appears.
. Ensure the *Enable Cache Coordination* option is selected, then select
the appropriate coordinated cache *Type* (see the
link:#Table_99-8[Coordinated Cache Support for JNDI Naming Service
Configuration] table). The cache coordination options appear on the tab.
*_Cache Coordination Tab, JNDI Naming Service Options_*
image:jndisrvc.gif[Cache Coordination Tab, JNDI Naming Service
Options,title="Cache Coordination Tab, JNDI Naming Service Options"]
. Complete the Naming Service options.

Use the following information to enter data in the fields of the Cache
Coordination tab to configure the naming service options:

Field

Description

URL

The location of the JNDI naming service.

For a JMS coordinated cache: If you are using the Oracle Containers for
J2EE (OC4J) JNDI naming service and all the hosts in your coordinated
cache can communicate using the OC4J proprietary RMI protocol ORMI, use
a URL similar to the following:

ormi://:

where JMS-host-IP is the IP address of the host on which the JMS service
provider is running and JMS-host-port is the port on which the JMS
service provider is listening for JMS requests.

For an RMI or CORBA coordinated cache: If you are using the OC4J JNDI
naming service and all the hosts in your coordinated cache can
communicate using the OC4J proprietary RMI protocol ORMI on OC4J default
port 23791, use a URL similar to the following:

ormi://:23791

where session-host-IP is the IP address of the host on which this
session is deployed.

Username

The user name required to log in to the JNDI naming service.

The value you enter defines the Context.SECURITY_PRINCIPAL environment
property.

Password

The plain text (unencrypted) password required to log in to the JNDI
naming service.

The password appears in plain text in Workbench, but it is encrypted
when written to the sessions.xml file.

The value you enter defines the Context.SECURITY_CREDENTIALS environment
property.

Initial Context Factory

The name of the factory class, provided by your JNDI naming service
provider, that implements the javax.naming.spi.InitialContextFactory
interface. This factory class is used to create a javax.naming.Context
instance that can access the JNDI naming service provider’s context
implementation.

The value you enter defines the Context.INITIAL_CONTEXT_FACTORY
environment property.

Properties

The JNDI context properties.

Click Properties to configure custom JNDI context properties (see
Configuring Context Properties).

=== How to Configure JNDI Naming Service Information Using Java

Use the
`+org.eclipse.persistence.sessions.coordination.TransportManager+`
method `+setNamingServiceType+` as follows:

`+setNamingServiceType(TransportManager.JNDI_NAMING_SERVICE)+`

Then use the following TransportManager methods to configure the JNDI
naming service options:

* `+setUserName+`–Set the user name required to log in to the JNDI
naming service. The value you enter defines the
`+Context.SECURITY_PRINCIPAL+` environment property.
* `+setPassword+`–Set the unencrypted password required to log in to the
JNDI naming service. The value you enter defines the
`+Context.SECURITY_CREDENTIALS+` in the cached context properties.
* `+setEncriptedPassword+`–Set the encrypted password required to log in
to the JNDI naming service. The value you enter defines the
`+Context.SECURITY_CREDENTIALS+` in the cached context properties.
* `+setInitialContextFactoryName+`–The name of the factory class,
provided by your JNDI naming service provider, that implements the
`+javax.naming.spi.InitialContextFactory+` interface. This factory class
is used to create a `+javax.naming.Context+` instance that can access
the JNDI naming service provider’s context implementation. The value you
enter defines the `+Context.INITIAL_CONTEXT_FACTORY+` in the cached
context properties.
* `+setLocalContextProperties+`–Set the properties that will be used to
create the initial context for local JNDI access. For more information,
see …

Do not forget to specify the location of the JNDI naming service by
providing its URL. Consider the following:

* For a JMS coordinated cache, if you are using the OC4J JNDI naming
service and all the hosts in your coordinated cache can communicate
using the OC4J proprietary RMI protocol ORMI, use a URL similar to the
following:

`+ormi://+``+:+`

where `+JMS-host-IP+` is the IP address of the host on which the JMS
service provider is running, and `+JMS-host-port+` is the port on which
the JMS service provider is listening for JMS requests.

* For an RMI or CORBA coordinated cache, if you are using the OC4J JNDI
naming service and all the hosts in your coordinated cache can
communicate using the OC4J proprietary RMI protocol ORMI on OC4J default
port 23791, use a URL similar to the following:

`+ormi://+``+:23791+`

where `+session-host-IP+` is the IP address of the host on which this
session is deployed.

Note that the default protocol value is "`ormi`", and the default port
value is "`23791`". You can also use the
`+TransportManager.DEFAULT_URL_PROTOCOL+` and `+DEFAULT_URL_PORT+`.

For more information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Cache%20(ELUG)#Cache_Coordination_API[Cache
Coordination API].

== Configuring RMI Registry Naming Service Information

The session’s message transport service uses a naming service when it
looks up connections to other sessions in the coordinated cache. If you
choose to use an RMI registry naming service, you can configure RMI
registry naming service options.

This table summarizes which coordinated caches support RMI registry
naming service configuration.

[#Table 99-9]## *_Coordinated Cache Support for RMI Registry Naming
Service Configuration_*

Coordinated Cache

Using Workbench

Using Java<

JMS Coordinated Cache

RMI Coordinated Cache

CORBA Coordinated Cache

Oracle Application Server Cluster 10g Coordinated Cache

Custom Coordinated Cache

For an RMI coordinated cache, when a particular session’s coordinated
cache starts up, the session binds its connection in its RMI registry,
creates an announcement message (that includes its own naming service
information), and broadcasts the announcement to its multicast group
(see link:#Configuring_a_Multicast_Group_Address[Configuring a Multicast
Group Address] and link:#Configuring_a_Multicast_Port[Configuring a
Multicast Port]). When a session that belongs to the same multicast
group receives this announcement, it uses the JNDI naming service
information in the announcement message to establish bidirectional
connections with the newly announced session’s coordinated cache. The
coordinated cache is ready when all participating sessions are
interconnected in this way, at which point, sessions can start sending
and receiving object change messages. You can then configure each
session with RMI registry naming information that identifies the host on
which the session is deployed.

=== How to Configure RMI Registry Naming Service Information Using Workbench

To specify the sessions’s registry naming service, use this procedure:

[arabic]
. Select a session or session broker in the *Navigator*. Its properties
appear in the Editor window.
. Click the *Cache Coordination* tab. The Cache Coordination tab
appears.
. Ensure the *Enable Cache Coordination* option is selected, then select
the appropriate coordinated cache *Type* (see the
link:#Table_99-9[Coordinated Cache Support for RMI Registry Naming
Service Configuration] table). The cache coordination options appear on
the tab. *_Cache Coordination Tab, Naming Service Options_*
image:rmisrvc.gif[Cache Coordination Tab, Naming Service
Options,title="Cache Coordination Tab, Naming Service Options"]
. Complete the Registry Naming Service options.

Use the following information to configure the naming service options:

Field

Description

URL

Assuming that you are using the OC4J JNDI naming service and that all
the hosts in your coordinated cache can communicate using the OC4J
proprietary RMI protocol ORMI on OC4J default port 23791, use a URL
similar to the following:

ormi://:23791

where session-host-IP is the IP address of the host on which this
session is deployed.

=== How to Configure RMI Registry Naming Service Information Using Java

Use the
`+org.eclipse.persistence.sessions.coordination.TransportManager+`
method `+setNamingServiceType+` as follows:

`+setNamingServiceType(TransportManager.REGISTRY_NAMING_SERVICE)+`

Then specify the location of the JNDI naming service by providing its
URL. Consider the following:

For an RMI or CORBA coordinated cache, if you are using the OC4J JNDI
naming service and all the hosts in your coordinated cache can
communicate using the OC4J proprietary RMI protocol ORMI on OC4J default
port 23791, use a URL similar to the following:

`+ormi://+``+:23791+`

where `+session-host-IP+` is the IP address of the host on which this
session is deployed.

Note that the default protocol value is "`ormi`", and the default port
value is "`23791`". You can also use the
`+TransportManager.DEFAULT_URL_PROTOCOL+` and `+DEFAULT_URL_PORT+`
contstants.

For more information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Cache%20(ELUG)#Cache_Coordination_API[Cache
Coordination API].

== Configuring an Announcement Delay

Use the announcement delay option to set the amount of time (in
milliseconds) that a session should wait between the time that it is
available and the time that it broadcasts its announcement message to
the members of the coordinated cache. This additional delay may be
necessary to give some systems more time to post their connections into
the naming service (see
link:#Configuring_a_Naming_Service_Type[Configuring a Naming Service
Type]).

This table summarizes which coordinated caches support announcement
delay configuration.

[#Table 99-10]## *_Coordinated Cache Support for Announcement Delay
Configuration_*

Coordinated Cache

Using Workbench

Using Java

JMS Coordinated Cache

RMI Coordinated Cache

CORBA Coordinated Cache

Oracle Application Server 10g Cluster Coordinated Cache

Custom Coordinated Cache

In addition to announcement delay, you may also need to consider packet
time-to-live configuration (see
link:#Configuring_a_Packet_Time-to-Live[Configuring a Packet
Time-to-Live]).

=== How to Configure an Announcement Delay Using Workbench

To specify the announcement delay (in milliseconds) for an RMI
coordinated cache, use this procedure:

[arabic]
. Select a session or session broker in the *Navigator*. Its properties
appear in the Editor.
. Click the *Cache Coordination* tab. The Cache Coordination tab
appears.
. Ensure the *Enable Cache Coordination* option is selected, then select
the appropriate coordinated cache *Type* (see the
link:#Table_99-10[Coordinated Cache Support for Announcement Delay
Configuration] table). The cache coordination options appear on the tab.
*_Cache Coordination Tab, Announcement Delay Field_*
image:rmicluad.gif[Cache Coordination Tab, Announcement Delay
Field,title="Cache Coordination Tab, Announcement Delay Field"]
. Select the amount of time (in milliseconds) that this session should
wait between the time that it is available and the time that it
broadcasts its announcement message to the members of the coordinated
cache.

See Also:

link:#Configuring_a_Packet_Time-to-Live[Configuring a Packet
Time-to-Live]

=== How to Configure an Announcement Delay Using Java

Use the
`+org.eclipse.persistence.sessions.coordination.DiscoveryManager+`
method `+setAnnouncementDelay+` to select the amount of time (in
milliseconds) that this session should wait between the time that it is
available and the time that it broadcasts its announcement message to
the members of the coordinated cache.

For more information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Cache%20(ELUG)#Cache_Coordination_API[Cache
Coordination API].

== Configuring Connection Handling

The session’s transport manager creates connections to the various
members of the coordinated cache. If a communication error occurs on one
of these connections, you can configure the session to either ignore the
error or remove the connection.

This table summarizes which coordinated caches support connection
handling configuration.

[#Table 99-11]## *_Coordinated Cache Support for Connection Handling
Configuration_*

Coordinated Cache

Using Workbench

Using Java

JMS Coordinated Cache

RMI Coordinated Cache

CORBA Coordinated Cache

Oracle Application Server 10g Cluster Coordinated Cache

Custom Coordinated Cache

If you configure the session to remove the connection on error, the next
time the session tries to communicate with that coordinated cache
member, it will construct a new connection.

If you configure the session to ignore the error, the next time the
session tries to communicate with that coordinated cache member, it will
continue to use the same connection.

=== How to Configure Connection Handling Using Workbench

To specify how EclipseLink handles session connections in the event of
an error, use this procedure:

[arabic]
. Select a session or session broker in the *Navigator*. Its properties
appear in the Editor.
. Click the *Cache Coordination* tab. The Cache Coordination tab
appears.
. Ensure the *Enable Cache Coordination* option is selected, then select
the appropriate coordinated cache *Type* (see the
link:#Table_99-11[Coordinated Cache Support for Connection Handling
Configuration] table). The cache coordination options appear on the tab.
*_Cache Coordination Tab, Remove Connection on Error Option_*
image:clonerr.gif[Cache Coordination Tab, Remove Connection on Error
Option,title="Cache Coordination Tab, Remove Connection on Error Option"]
. Select the *Remove Connection on Error* option to configure the
session to remove the data source connection in the event of an error.

=== How to Configure Connection Handling Using Java

Use the
`+org.eclipse.persistence.sessions.coordination.TransportManager+`
method `+setShouldRemoveConnectionOnError+` to configure the session to
remove the data source connection if an error occurs.

For more information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Cache%20(ELUG)#Cache_Coordination_API[Cache
Coordination API].

== Configuring Context Properties

When you configure a coordinated cache to use a JNDI naming service (see
link:#Configuring_a_Naming_Service_Type[Configuring a Naming Service
Type]), you can add new environment properties to the environment of the
initial JNDI context.

This table summarizes which coordinated caches support context
properties.

[#Table 99-12]## *_Coordinated Cache Support for Context Properties_*

Coordinated Cache

Using Workbench

Using Java

JMS Coordinated Cache

RMI Coordinated Cache 1

CORBA Coordinated Cache

Oracle Application Server 10g Cluster Coordinated Cache

Custom Coordinated Cache

1When JNDI naming service is selected (see
link:#Configuring_a_Naming_Service_Type[Configuring a Naming Service
Type]). Using Workbench, EclipseLink uses the new environment properties
you add to create the initial context for both local and remote JNDI
access.

Using Java, you can configure different properties for local and remote
JNDI access using a session customizer class to call
`+TransportManager+` methods `+setLocalContextProperties+` and
`+setRemoteContectProperties+` (for more information, see
link:Configuring%20a%20Session%20(ELUG)#Configuring_a_Session_Customizer_Class[Configuring
a Session Customizer Class]).

=== How to Configure Context Properties Using Workbench

To define JNDI context properties, use this procedure:

[arabic]
. Select a session or session broker in the *Navigator*. Its properties
appear in the Editor.
. Ensure the *Enable Cache Coordination* option is selected, then select
the appropriate coordinated cache *Type* (see the
link:#Table_99-12[Coordinated Cache Support for Context Properties]
table). The cache coordination options appear on the tab.
. Ensure the *JNDI Naming Service* option is selected. See
link:#Configuring_a_Naming_Service_Type[Configuring a Naming Service
Type].
. In the JNDI Naming Service area, click *Properties*. The Edit
Properties dialog box appears. *_Edit Properties Dialog Box_*
image:cachepropdialog.gif[Edit Properties Dialog
Box,title="Edit Properties Dialog Box"]
. Click *Add* to create a new property. The Add New Property dialog box
appears.

Use this table to enter data in the following fields on the dialog box.

[cols="<,<",options="header",]
|===
|*Field* |*Description*
|*Name* |The name of the property.
|*Value* |The value of the property.
|===

To change (or delete) an existing property, select the property and
click *Edit* (or *Remove*).

=== How to Configure Context Properties Using Java

Use the
`+org.eclipse.persistence.sessions.coordination.TransportManager+`
method `+setLocalContextProperties+` to define a `+Hashtable+` of the
JNDI context properties that will be used to create the initial context
for the local JNDI access. Note that the "`dedicated.connection`" is the
default key with the default value of "`true`".

For more information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Cache%20(ELUG)#Cache_Coordination_API[Cache
Coordination API].

== Configuring a Packet Time-to-Live

The *packet time-to-live* is the number of hops that session data
*packets* can take before expiring. The default is 2. This allows for a
*hub* and an interface card, and prevents the data packets from leaving
the local network. If sessions are hosted on different local area
networks (LANs) that are part of wide area network (WAN), or if a
firewall configuration prevents it, the announcement sent by one session
may not reach the other sessions in the coordinated cache. In this case,
consult your network administrator for the correct time-to-live value.

This table summarizes which coordinated caches support packet
time-to-live configuration.

[#Table 99-13]## *_Coordinated Cache Support for Packet Time-to-Live
Configuration_*

Coordinated Cache

Using Workbench

Using Java

JMS Coordinated Cache

RMI Coordinated Cache

CORBA Coordinated Cache

Oracle Application Server 10g Cluster Coordinated Cache

Custom Coordinated Cache

In addition to configuring packet time-to-live, you may also need to
configure announcement delay (see
link:#Configuring_an_Announcement_Delay[Configuring an Announcement
Delay]).

=== How to Configure a Packet Time-to-Live Using Workbench

To specify the number of hops that session data packets can take before
expiring, use this procedure:

[arabic]
. Select a session or session broker in the *Navigator*. Its properties
appear in the Editor.
. Ensure the *Enable Cache Coordination* option is selected, then select
the appropriate coordinated cache *Type* (see the
link:#Table_99-12[Coordinated Cache Support for Packet Time-to-Live
Configuration] table). The cache coordination options appear on the tab.
*_Cache Coordination Tab, Packet Time to Live Field_*
image:rmipacket.gif[DCache Coordination Tab, Packet Time to Live
Field,title="DCache Coordination Tab, Packet Time to Live Field"]
. In the *Packet Time to Live* field, specify the number of hops
(default = `+2+`) that session data packets can take before expiring.

=== How to Configure a Packet Time-to-Live Using Java

Use the
`+org.eclipse.persistence.sessions.coordination.DiscoveryManager+`
method `+setPacketTimeToLive+` to specify the number of hops (default =
2) that session data packets can take before expiring.

For more information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Cache%20(ELUG)#Cache_Coordination_API[Cache
Coordination API].

'''''

_link:EclipseLink_User's_Guide_Copyright_Statement[Copyright Statement]_

Category:_EclipseLink_User's_Guide[Category: EclipseLink User’s Guide]
Category:_Release_1[Category: Release 1] Category:_Task[Category: Task]
