*TOC* Special:Whatlinkshere_Configuring_Server_Sessions_(ELUG)[Related
Topics]

This table lists the configurable options for server and client
sessions.

[#Table 87-1]##

Option to Configure

Workbench

Java

Configuring Internal Connection Pools

Configuring a Primary Mapping Project

Configuring a Session Login

Configuring Logging

Configuring External Connection Pools

Configuring Multiple Mapping Projects

Configuring a Performance Profiler

Configuring an Exception Handler

Configuring a Session Customizer Class

Configuring the Server Platform

Configuring Session Event Listeners

Configuring a Coordinated Cache

Configuring the Integrity Checker

Configuring Named Queries at the Session Level

== Configuring Internal Connection Pools

An internal connection pool is a collection of reusable connections to a
single data source provided by any session that persists to a data
source. By default, such a session provides both an internal read and
write connection pool.

In this case, you can do the following:

* Configure read and write connection pool options such as minimum and
maximum number of connections, alternate connection configuration, and
properties (arbitrary, application-specific named values).
* Create named connection pools for whatever application-specific
purpose you choose.
* Create sequence connection pools that EclipseLink uses exclusively for
obtaining object identifiers.

For more information about creating and configuring internal connection
pools, see the following:

* link:Creating%20an%20Internal%20Connection%20Pool%20(ELUG)[Creating an
Internal Connection Pool]
* link:Configuring%20an%20Internal%20Connection%20Pool%20(ELUG)[Configuring
an Internal Connection Pool]

For more information about configuring the type of connection pool your
session uses, see
link:Configuring%20a%20Data%20Source%20Login%20(ELUG)#Configuring_External_Connection_Pooling[Configuring
External Connection Pooling].

== Configuring External Connection Pools

An external connection pool is a collection of reusable connections to a
single data source provided by a JDBC driver or Java EE container.

By default, a session uses internal connection pools (see
link:#Configuring_Internal_Connection_Pools[Configuring Internal
Connection Pools]). For more information about configuring a session to
use an external connection pool, see
link:Configuring%20a%20Data%20Source%20Login%20(ELUG)#Configuring_External_Connection_Pooling[Configuring
External Connection Pooling].

'''''

_link:EclipseLink_User's_Guide_Copyright_Statement[Copyright Statement]_

Category:_EclipseLink_User's_Guide[Category: EclipseLink Userâ€™s Guide]
Category:_Release_1[Category: Release 1] Category:_Task[Category: Task]
