image:Elug_draft_icon.png[Image:Elug draft
icon.png,title="Image:Elug draft icon.png"] *For the latest EclipseLink
documentation, please see
http://www.eclipse.org/eclipselink/documentation/*

'''''

*TOC*
Special:Whatlinkshere_Configuring_Exclusive_Isolated_Client_Sessions_for_Virtual_Private_Database_(ELUG)[Related
Topics]

This table lists the configurable options for isolated sessions.

[#Table 88-1]##

Option to Configure

Workbench

Java

Configuring Cache Isolation at the Descriptor Level

Configuring Connection Policy

How to Configure Oracle Database Proxy Authentication Using Java

Using PostAcquireExclusiveConnection Event Handler

Using PreReleaseExclusiveConnection Event Handler

Using NoRowsModifiedSessionEvent Event Handler

Accessing Indirection

These options are used throughout the isolated session life cycle (see
link:Introduction%20to%20EclipseLink%20Sessions%20(ELUG)#Isolated_Client_Session_Life_Cycle[Isolated
Client Session Life Cycle]).

== Using PostAcquireExclusiveConnection Event Handler

EclipseLink raises this event after an exclusive connection is allocated
to an isolated session after the user has logged in to the database with
it.

If you are using Oracle Database proxy authentication (see
link:Introduction%20to%20Data%20Access%20(ELUG)#Oracle_Database_Proxy_Authentication[Oracle
Database Proxy Authentication]), then you do not need to implement this
session event handler.

If you are not using Oracle Database proxy authentication, then, as part
of the isolated session life cycle, you must implement a
`+SessionEventListener+` for
`+SessionEvent.PostAcquireExclusiveConnection+`.

[width="100%",cols="<100%",]
|===
|*Note:* You must add this session event listener to the server session
from which you acquire your isolated client session. You cannot add them
to the isolated client session itself. For more information, see
link:Configuring%20a%20Session%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Session_Event_Listeners[Configuring
Session Event Listeners]
|===

=== How to Use Java

The `+SessionEvent.PostAcquireExclusiveConnection+` event listener is
your opportunity to authenticate your user and interact with the
underlying database platform: for example, to execute PL/SQL to create
VPD packages and set VPD context information.

This example illustrates a typical session event listener used to handle
`+postAcquireExclusiveConnection+` events for an isolated session.

[#Example 88-1]## *_Session Event Listener for an Isolated Session_*

`+class VPDEventListener extends SessionEventAdaptor{+`
`+    public void postAcquireExclusiveConnection(SessionEvent event){+`
`+        ClientSession session = (ClientSession)event.getSession();+`
`+        +`*`+//\'\' \'\'Get\'\' \'\'property\'\' \'\'set\'\' \'\'on\'\' \'\'the\'\' \'\'ConnectionPolicy\'\' \'\'prior\'\' \'\'to\'\' \'\'acquiring\'\' \'\'the\'\' \'\'connection+`*
`+        String userLevel = session.getConnectionPolicy().getProperty("userLevel");+`
`+        +`*`+//\'\' \'\'Make\'\' \'\'the\'\' \'\'Stored\'\' \'\'Procedure\'\' \'\'call\'\' \'\'for\'\' \'\'VPD\'\' \'\'to\'\' \'\'set\'\' \'\'up\'\' \'\'the\'\' \'\'Context\'\' \'\'Information+`*

`+        session.executeNonSelectingSQL("StoreProcSetContextUser("+ userLevel + ")");+`
`+    }+` `+}+`

To get the required user credentials, use `+ClientSession+` method
`+getConnectionPolicy+` to get the associated `+ConnectionPolicy+`, and
then use `+ConnectionPolicy+` method `+getProperty+`. The
`+ConnectionPolicy+` associated with the `+ClientSession+` should
contain all required user credentials (see
link:Configuring%20a%20Session%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Connection_Policy[Configuring
Connection Policy]).

After you implement the required `+SessionEventListener+`, add it to the
parent server session from which you acquire your isolated client
session. For more information, see
link:Configuring%20a%20Session%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Session_Event_Listeners[Configuring
Session Event Listeners].

== Using PreReleaseExclusiveConnection Event Handler

EclipseLink raises a `+SessionEvent.PreReleaseExclusiveConnection+`
event after you call the isolated session method `+release+`.

If you are using Oracle Database proxy authentication (see
link:Introduction%20to%20Data%20Access%20(ELUG)#Oracle_Database_Proxy_Authentication[Oracle
Database Proxy Authentication]), then you do not need to implement this
session event handler.

If you are not using Oracle Database proxy authentication, then as part
of the isolated session life cycle, you must implement a
`+SessionEventListener+` for
`+SessionEvent.PreReleaseExclusiveConnection+`.

[width="100%",cols="<100%",]
|===
|*Note:* You must add this session event listener to the server session
from which you acquire your isolated client session. You cannot add them
to the isolated client session itself. For more information, see
link:Configuring%20a%20Session%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Session_Event_Listeners[Configuring
Session Event Listeners]
|===

=== How to Use Java

The `+SessionEvent.PreReleaseExclusiveConnection+` event listener gives
you an opportunity to interact with the underlying database platform:
for example, to perform any VPD-specific cleanup such as executing
PL/SQL to delete VPD packages or context information.

This example illustrates a typical session event listener used to handle
`+preReleaseExclusiveConnection+` events for an isolated session.

[#Example 88-2]## *_Session Event Listener for an Isolated Session_*

`+class VPDEventListener extends SessionEventAdaptor{+`
`+    public void preReleaseExclusiveConnection(SessionEvent event){+`
`+        Session session event.getSession();+`
`+        +`*`+//\'\' \'\'Make\'\' \'\'the\'\' \'\'Stored\'\' \'\'Procedure\'\' \'\'call\'\' \'\'for\'\' \'\'VPD\'\' \'\'to\'\' \'\'reset\'\' \'\'the\'\' \'\'Context\'\' \'\'Information+`*
`+        session.executeNonSelectingSQL("StoreProcResetContext()");+`
`+    }+` `+}+`

To get the required user credentials, use `+ClientSession+` method
`+getConnectionPolicy+` to get the associated `+ConnectionPolicy+`, and
then use `+ConnectionPolicy+` method `+getProperty+`. The
`+ConnectionPolicy+` associated with the `+ClientSession+` should
contain all required user credentials (see
link:Configuring%20a%20Session%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Connection_Policy[Configuring
Connection Policy]).

After you implement the required `+SessionEventListener+`, add it to the
parent server session, from which you acquire your isolated client
session. For more information, see
link:Configuring%20a%20Session%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Session_Event_Listeners[Configuring
Session Event Listeners].

== Using NoRowsModifiedSessionEvent Event Handler

As part of your general error handling strategy, you should implement a
`+SessionEventListener+` for
`+SessionEvent.NoRowsModifiedSessionEvent+`.

EclipseLink raises this event when an update or delete query is executed
against the database, but no rows are updated, that is, a zero row count
is returned.

If optimistic locking is not enabled and you query the database and
violate your VPD security configuration, no exception is thrown: the
query simply returns zero rows updated.

If optimistic locking is enabled and you query the database and violate
your VPD security configuration, an `+OptimisticLockException+` is
thrown even though the root cause of the failure was a security
violation, not an optimistic locking issue.

[width="100%",cols="<100%",]
|===
|*Note:* You must add this session event listener to the server session
from which you acquire your isolated client session. You cannot add them
to the isolated client session itself. For more information, see
link:Configuring%20a%20Session%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Session_Event_Listeners[Configuring
Session Event Listeners]
|===

=== How to Use Java

This event listener gives you an opportunity to determine whether the
update failure was due to a security violation (in which case you should
not retry the operation), or due to an optimistic lock issue (in which
case a retry may be appropriate).

You can use the existing session event API, such as
`+getQuery().getResult()+`, to get the affected object, if any.

After you implement the required `+SessionEventListener+`, add it to the
parent server session, from which you acquire your isolated client
session. For more information, see
link:Configuring%20a%20Session%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Session_Event_Listeners[Configuring
Session Event Listeners].

== Accessing Indirection

As part of your general error handling strategy, your application should
be prepared to handle a `+ValidationException+` of type
`+ISOLATED_SESSION_IS_NO_LONGER_AVAILABLE+`.

EclipseLink throws an `+ISOLATED_SESSION_IS_NO_LONGER_AVAILABLE+` when a
client triggers the indirection (lazy loading) on an isolated object
when the isolated session used to load that object is no longer
available, that is, after you call the isolated session method
`+release+`.

Ensure that you have instantiated every relationship that you need prior
to calling the `+release+` method: to instantiate a one-to-one
relationship, call the `+get+` method; to instantiate a one-to-many
relationship, call the `+size+` method on the collection.

Fore more information, see the following:

* link:Introduction%20to%20EclipseLink%20Sessions%20(ELUG)#Exception_Handlers[Exception
Handlers]
* link:Configuring%20a%20Session%20(ELUG)#Configuring_an_Exception_Handler[Configuring
an Exception Handler]

'''''

_link:EclipseLink_User's_Guide_Copyright_Statement[Copyright Statement]_

Category:_EclipseLink_User's_Guide[Category: EclipseLink User’s Guide]
Category:_Release_1[Category: Release 1] Category:_Task[Category: Task]
