image:Elug_draft_icon.png[Image:Elug draft
icon.png,title="Image:Elug draft icon.png"] *For the latest EclipseLink
documentation, please see
http://www.eclipse.org/eclipselink/documentation/*

'''''

*TOC* Special:Whatlinkshere_Configuring_an_EIS_Descriptor_(ELUG)[Related
Topics]

For information on how to create EIS descriptors, see
link:Creating%20an%20EIS%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)[Creating an EIS
Descriptor].

This table lists the default configurable options for an EIS descriptor.

[#Table 72-1]##

Option to Configure

EclipseLink Workbench

Java

How to Configure XML Schema Namespace

How to Configure an XML Schema Reference

Configuring Schema Context for an EIS Descriptor

Configuring Default Root Element

Configuring Primary Keys 1

Configuring Read-Only Descriptors

Configuring Unit of Work Conforming at the Descriptor Level

Configuring Descriptor Alias

Configuring Descriptor Comments)

Configuring Record Format

How to Create Classes

Configuring Named Queries at the Descriptor Level

Configuring Custom EIS Interactions for Basic Persistence Operations

Configuring Cache Refreshing

Configuring Cache Type and Size at the Descriptor Level

Configuring Cache Isolation at the Descriptor Level

Configuring Cache Coordination Change Propagation at the Descriptor
Level

Configuring Cache Expiration at the Descriptor Level

Configuring Cache Existence Checking at the Descriptor Level

Configuring an EIS Descriptor as a Root or Composite Type

Configuring Inheritance for a Child (Branch or Leaf) Class Descriptor

Configuring Inheritance for a Parent (Root) Descriptor

Configuring Inherited Attribute Mapping in a Subclass

Configuring a Domain Object Method as an Event Handler

Configuring a Descriptor Event Listener as an Event Handler

Configuring Locking Policy

Configuring Returning Policy

Configuring Instantiation Policy

Configuring Copy Policy

Configuring Change Policy

Configuring Wrapper Policy

Configuring Amendment Methods

Configuring a Mapping

1EIS root descriptors only (see
link:#Configuring_an_EIS_Descriptor_as_a_Root_or_Composite_Type[Configuring
an EIS Descriptor as a Root or Composite Type]). For more information,
see link:Introduction%20to%20EIS%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)[Introduction to
EIS Descriptors].

== Configuring Schema Context for an EIS Descriptor

Workbench uses the schema context to associate the class that the EIS
descriptor describes with a simple or complex type in one of the schemas
associated with the EIS project (see
link:Using%20Workbench%20(ELUG)#How_to_Configure_an_XML_Schema_Reference[How
to Configure an XML Schema Reference]). This allows Workbench to display
the appropriate attributes available for mapping in that context.

You must configure the schema context for an EIS root descriptor (see
link:#Configuring_an_EIS_Descriptor_as_a_Root_or_Composite_Type[Configuring
an EIS Descriptor as a Root or Composite Type]) only if you are using
the Workbench.

=== How to Configure Schema Context for an EIS Descriptor Using Workbench

To associate an EIS descriptor with a simple or complex type in this
project’s schema, use this procedure:

[arabic]
. Select an EIS descriptor in the *Navigator*. Its properties appear in
the Editor.
. Click the *Descriptor Info* tab. The Descriptor Info tab appears.
[#Figure 72-1]##*_Descriptor Info Tab, Schema Context Option_*
image:desschcx.gif[Descriptor Info Tab, Schema Context
Option,title="Descriptor Info Tab, Schema Context Option"]
. Complete the *Schema Context* option on the tab.
. Click *Browse* to select the schema element to associate with this
descriptor. For more information, see
link:#Configuring_a_Schema_Context[Configuring a Schema Context].

==== Choosing a Schema Context

Use the Choose Schema Context dialog box to select a specific schema
element (such as when mapping an element).

[#Figure 72-2]## *_Choose Schema Context Dialog Box_*

.Choose Schema Context Dialog Box
image::schcontx.gif[Choose Schema Context Dialog
Box,title="Choose Schema Context Dialog Box"]

Select the schema element and click *OK*.

=== How to Configure Schema Context for an EIS Descriptor Using Java

For an EIS descriptor, the EclipseLink runtime does not need the schema
context: the runtime can determine the schema context based on the
mappings you configure on the descriptor. No further configuration is
required.

== Configuring Default Root Element

You must configure the default root element for
link:Creating%20an%20EIS%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#EIS_Root_Descriptors[EIS
Root Descriptors] so that the EclipseLink runtime knows the data source
data type associated with the class the descriptor describes.
Descriptors used only in composite relationship mappings do not require
a default root element.

[width="100%",cols="<100%",]
|===
|*Note:* Although you select an element from your project’s schema to
configure this attribute, you are choosing the element’s simple or
complex type.
|===

For more information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)#Default_Root_Element[Default
Root Element].

=== How to Configure Default Root Element Using Workbench

When you create an EIS project using Workbench, you must use XML
records. Consequently, you must configure a default root element so that
Workbench knows what element to start with when persisting an instance
of the class that the EIS descriptor describes.

To specify a schema element as the default root element for the
descriptor, use this procedure:

[arabic]
. Select a descriptor in the *Navigator*. Its properties appear in the
Editor.
. Click the *Descriptor Info* tab. The Descriptor Info tab appears.
[#Figure 72-3]##*_Descriptor Info Tab, Default Root Element Option_*
image:didocroot.gif[Descriptor Info Tab, Default Root Element
Option,title="Descriptor Info Tab, Default Root Element Option"]
. Use the *Default Root Element* option to select the root element for
this descriptor. Click *Browse* to select the schema element to identify
as the root element. See link:#onfiguring_a_Root_Element[Configuring a
Root Element] for more information.

==== Choosing a Root Element

Use the Choose Root Element dialog box to select a specific root
element.

[#Figure 72-4]## *_Choose Root Element Dialog Box_*

.Choose Root Element Dialog Box
image::rootelem.gif[Choose Root Element Dialog
Box,title="Choose Root Element Dialog Box"]

Select the root element and click *OK*.

=== How to Configure Default Root Element Using Java

When you create an EIS project using Java code, use the
`+EISDescriptor+` method `+setDataTypeName+` to specify the XML schema
complex type name (if you are using XML records) or the JCA record name
(if you are using indexed or mapped records) corresponding to the class
that the EIS descriptor describes. For more information, see
_EclipseLink API Reference_.

== Configuring Record Format

The EIS descriptor record format determines the EIS record type to which
the descriptor’s EIS mappings map.

When you create an EIS project using Workbench, EclipseLink configures
all EIS descriptors with a record format of XML.

When you create an EIS project in Java, you can configure the EIS
descriptor record type to any of the supported types, as this table
shows.

[#Table 72-2]##

EISDescriptor Method

EIS Record Type

useMappedRecordFormat

All EIS mappings owned by this descriptor map to EIS mapped records.

useIndexedRecordFormat

All EIS mappings owned by this descriptor map to EIS indexed records.

useXMLRecordFormat

All EIS mappings owned by this descriptor map to EIS XML records.If you
use the XML record format, you must specify one or more XML schemas in
your EIS project (see How to Import an XML Schema). The EclipseLink
runtime performs XML data conversion based on one or more XML schemas.
In an EIS XML project, Workbench does not directly reference schemas in
the deployment XML, but insteadexports mappings configured with respect
to the schemas you specify.

For information on EclipseLink support for XML namespaces, see XML
Namespaces.

For more information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20EIS%20Mappings%20(ELUG)#EIS_Record_Type[EIS
Record Type].

=== How to Configure Record Format Using Java

To configure the EIS record format for an EIS descriptor, use one of the
`+EISDescriptor+` methods listed in the link:#Table_72-2[EIS Record
Formats] table, as shown in this example.

[#Example 72-1]## *_Configuring EISDescriptor Record Format_*

`+EISDescriptor descriptor = new EISDescriptor();+`
`+descriptor.useIndexedRecordFormat();+`

== Configuring Custom EIS Interactions for Basic Persistence Operations

You can use EclipseLink to define an interaction for each basic
persistence operation (*insert*, *update*, *delete*, *read object*,
*read all*, or *does exist*) so that when you query and modify your
EIS-mapped objects, the EclipseLink runtime will use the appropriate EIS
interaction instead of the default EIS interaction.

You can configure custom EIS interactions for basic persistence
operations only for EIS descriptors designated as root descriptors (
link:#Configuring_an_EIS_Descriptor_as_a_Root_or_Composite_Type[Configuring
an EIS Descriptor as a Root or Composite Type]).

Using Workbench, you can create `+XMLInteraction+` objects, in which
there is a single query per interaction (see
link:#How_to_Configure_Custom_EIS_Interactions_for_Basic_Persistence_Operations_Using_Workbench[How
to Configure Custom EIS Interactions for Basic Persistence Operations
Using Workbench]).

Using Java, you can create any `+EISInteraction+` type. For some EIS
projects, it is common for multiple interactions to be used in a single
query. For example, one interaction–to enqueue a request, and another–to
dequeue the response. Because Workbench does not support setting
multiple interactions on a single query, you must use an amendment
method to create and configure the interaction in Java (see
link:#How_to_Configure_Custom_EIS_Interactions_for_Basic_Persistence_Operations_Using_Java[How
to Configure Custom EIS Interactions for Basic Persistence Operations
Using Java]).

[width="100%",cols="<100%",]
|===
|*Note:* In a one-to-one or one-to-many EIS mapping, you must also
specify a selection interaction that EclipseLink uses to acquire target
objects. You can use either the target object’s read interaction (the
default) or specify a separate selection interaction, if necessary. For
more information, see
link:Configuring%20an%20EIS%20Mapping%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Selection_Interaction[Configuring
Selection Interaction]).
|===

=== How to Configure Custom EIS Interactions for Basic Persistence Operations Using Workbench

To configure custom EIS interactions for basic persistence operations,
use the following procedure:

[arabic]
. In the *Navigator*, select an EIS root descriptor in a EIS project.
. Click the *Queries* tab in the *Editor*. The Queries tab appears.
. Click the *Custom Calls* tab. The Custom Calls tab appears.
[#Figure 72-5]##*_Queries, Custom Calls Tab for EIS Calls_*
image:Qrcalltab.gif[Queries, Custom Calls Tab for EIS
Calls,title="Queries, Custom Calls Tab for EIS Calls"]
. Click the appropriate interaction type from the list (*Insert*,
*Update*, *Delete*, *Read Object*, *Read All*, or *Does Exist*) and use
the following table to enter data in each field

[width="100%",cols="<7%,<93%",options="header",]
|===
|*Field* |*Description*
|*Interaction Type* |Using Workbench, you can only use XML Interactions.
You cannot change this field.

|*Function Name* |The name of the EIS function that this call type (Read
Object or Read All) invokes on the EIS.

|*Input Record Name* |The name passed to the JCA adapter when creating
the input record.

|*Input Root Element* |The root element name to use for the input DOM.

|*Input Arguments* |The query argument name to map to the interaction
field or XPath nodes in the argument record. For example, if you are
using XML records, use this option to map input argument `+name+` to the
XPath `+name/first-name+`.

|*Output Arguments* |The result record field or XPath nodes to map to
the correct nodes in the record used by the descriptor’s mappings. For
example, if you are using XML records, use this option to map the output
`+fname+` to `+name/first-name+`.Output arguments are not required if
the interaction returns an XML result that matches the descriptor’s
mappings.

|*Input Result Path* |Use this option if the EIS interaction expects the
interaction arguments to be nested in the XML record. For example,
specify `+arguments+`, if the arguments were to be nested under the root
element `+exec-find-order+`, then under an `+arguments+` element.

|*Output Result Path* |Use this option if the EIS interaction result
record contains the XML data that maps to the objects in a nested
structure. For example, specify `+order+`, if the results were return
under a root element `+results+`, then under an `+order+` element.

|*Properties* |Any properties required by your EIS platform. For
example, property name `+operation+` (from
`+AQPlatform.QUEUE_OPERATION+`) and property value `+enqueue+` (from
`+AQPlatform.ENQUEUE+`).
|===

=== How to Configure Custom EIS Interactions for Basic Persistence Operations Using Java

Using Java, you can create any type of
link:Using%20Basic%20Query%20API%20(ELUG)#Using_EIS_Interactions[EIS
interaction] that EclipseLink supports.

For some EIS projects, it is common for multiple interactions to be used
in a single query: for example, one interaction to enqueue a request and
another to dequeue the response. Because Workbench does not support
setting multiple interactions on a single query, you must use an
amendment method to create and configure the interaction in Java, as
this examle shows.

[#Example 72-2]## *_Creating an XML Interaction for an AQ Platform_*

`+public static void addXMLInteractions(ClassDescriptor descriptor) {+`
`+    +`*`+//\'\' \'\'find\'\' \'\'order\'\' \'\'interaction+`*
`+    XMLInteraction request = new XMLInteraction();+`
`+    request.setProperty(AQPlatform.QUEUE_OPERATION, AQPlatform.ENQUEUE);+`
`+    request.setProperty(AQPlatform.QUEUE, "ORDER_INBOUND_QUEUE");+`
`+    request.setProperty(AQPlatform.SCHEMA, "AQUSER");+`
`+    request.setInputRootElementName("READ_ORDER");+`
`+    request.addArgument("@id");+` `+ +`
`+    XMLInteraction response = new XMLInteraction();+`
`+    response.setProperty(AQPlatform.QUEUE_OPERATION, AQPlatform.DEQUEUE);+`
`+    response.setProperty(AQPlatform.QUEUE, "ORDER_OUTBOUND_QUEUE");+`
`+    response.setProperty(AQPlatform.SCHEMA, "AQUSER");+` `+ +`
`+    ReadObjectQuery query = new ReadObjectQuery();+`
`+    query.addCall(request);+` `+    query.addCall(response);+`
`+    descriptor.getQueryManager().setReadObjectQuery(query);+` `+ +`
`+    +`*`+//\'\' \'\'place\'\' \'\'order\'\' \'\'interaction+`*
`+    XMLInteraction insert = new XMLInteraction();+`
`+    insert.setProperty(AQPlatform.QUEUE_OPERATION, AQPlatform.ENQUEUE);+`
`+    insert.setProperty(AQPlatform.QUEUE, "ORDER_INBOUND_QUEUE");+`
`+    insert.setProperty(AQPlatform.SCHEMA, "AQUSER");+`
`+    insert.setInputRootElementName("INSERT_ORDER");+`
`+                +`
`+    descriptor.getQueryManager().setInsertCall(insert);+` `+}+`

== Configuring an EIS Descriptor as a Root or Composite Type

You can designate an EIS descriptor as
link:Creating%20an%20EIS%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#EIS_Root_Descriptors[root]
or
link:Creating%20an%20EIS%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#EIS_Composite_Descriptors[composite].

When you designate an EIS descriptor as a root, you tell the EclipseLink
runtime that the EIS descriptor’s reference class is a parent classš–no
other class will reference it by way of a composite object mapping or
composite collection mapping. Using an EIS root descriptor, you can
configure all supported mappings and you can configure the descriptor
with
link:Using%20Basic%20Query%20API%20(ELUG)#Using_EIS_Interactions[EIS
interactions]. However, if you configure the EIS root descriptor with a
composite object mapping or composite collection mapping, the reference
descriptor you define must be an EIS composite descriptor; it cannot be
another EIS root descriptor.

When you designate an EIS descriptor as a composite (the default), you
tell the EclipseLink runtime that the EIS descriptor’s reference class
may be referenced by a
link:Configuring%20an%20EIS%20Composite%20Object%20Mapping%20(ELUG)[composite
object] or
link:Configuring%20an%20EIS%20Composite%20Collection%20Mapping_(ELUG)[composite
collection] mapping. Using an EIS composite descriptor, you can
configure all supported mappings, but you cannot configure it with EIS
interactions.

You can configure inheritance for a descriptor designated as a composite
(see
link:Configuring%20a%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Inheritance_for_a_Child_(Branch_or_Leaf)_Class_Descriptor[Configuring
Inheritance for a Child (Branch or Leaf) Class Descriptor]), however, in
this case, _all_ the descriptors in the inheritance tree must be
aggregates. Aggregate and class descriptors cannot exist in the same
inheritance tree. For more information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)#Aggregate_and_Composite_Descriptors_and_Inheritance[Aggregate
and Composite Descriptors and Inheritance].

If you configure a descriptor as a composite using Workbench, you cannot
configure the descriptor with EJB information.

For more information, see the following:

* link:Introduction%20to%20XML%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)#XML_Descriptors_and_Aggregation[XML
Descriptors and Aggregation]
* link:Introduction%20to%20EIS%20Mappings%20(ELUG)#Composite_and_Reference_EIS_Mappings[Composite
and Reference EIS Mappings]

=== How to Configure an EIS Descriptor as a Root or Composite Type Using Workbench

To configure an EIS descriptor as a root or composite EIS descriptor,
use this procedure:

[arabic]
. In the *Navigator*, select an EIS composite descriptor.
. Click the *Root* or *Composite* descriptor button on the mapping
toolbar.You can also select the descriptor and choose *Selected* >
*Descriptor Type* > *Root* or *Composite* from the menu or by
right-clicking on the descriptor in the *Navigator* and selecting
*Descriptor Type* > *Root* or *Composite* from the context menu.

=== How to Configure an EIS Descriptor as a Root or Composite Type Using Java

To configure an EIS descriptor as root or composite using Java, create a
descriptor amendment method (see
link:Configuring%20a%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Amendment_Methods[Configuring
Amendment Methods]) and use the following `+EISDescriptor+` methods:

* To designate an EIS descriptor as a root descriptor, use
`+EISDescriptor+` method `+descriptorIsNormal+`.
* To designate an EIS descriptor as a composite (nonroot) descriptor,
use `+EISDescriptor+` method `+descriptorIsAggregate+`.

'''''

_link:EclipseLink_User's_Guide_Copyright_Statement[Copyright Statement]_

Category:_EclipseLink_User's_Guide[Category: EclipseLink User’s Guide]
Category:_Release_1[Category: Release 1] Category:_Task[Category: Task]
Category:_EIS[Category: EIS]
