image:Elug_draft_icon.png[Image:Elug draft
icon.png,title="Image:Elug draft icon.png"] *For the latest EclipseLink
documentation, please see
http://www.eclipse.org/eclipselink/documentation/*

'''''

*TOC* Special:Whatlinkshere_Creating_an_EIS_Project_(ELUG)[Related
Topics]

This section describes the various components that you must configure in
order to create an EIS project.

For information on how to configure EIS projects, see
link:Configuring%20an%20EIS%20Project%20(ELUG)[Configuring an EIS
Project].

You can create a project using the Workbench or Java code.

We recommend using the Workbench to create projects and generate
deployment XML or Java source versions of the project for use at run
time. For more information on how to create a project using Workbench,
see
link:Creating%20a%20Project%20(ELUG)#How_to_Create_a_Project_Using_the_Workbench[How
to Create a Project Using the Workbench]. For information on how to
create a project using Java, see
link:Creating%20a%20Project%20(ELUG)#How_to_Create_a_Project_Using_Java[How
to Create a Project Using Java].

For more information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20EIS%20Projects%20(ELUG)[Introduction to EIS
Projects].

For an EIS project that uses a record type other than XML, you must use
Java code. For more information, see the following:

* link:#Creating_an_EIS_Project_with_Indexed_or_Mapped_Records[Creating
an EIS Project with Indexed or Mapped Records]
* link:Creating%20a%20Project%20(ELUG)#How_to_Create_a_Project_Using_Java[How
to Create a Project Using Java]
* _EclipseLink API Reference_.

== Creating an EIS Project with XML Records

Workbench provides complete support for creating EIS projects that map
Java objects to EIS XML records.

Using Workbench, you can create an EIS project for transactional
persistence of Java objects to a non-relational data source accessed
using a JCA adapter and EIS XML records.

The EclipseLink runtime performs XML data conversions based on one or
more XML schemas. In an EIS project, Workbench does not directly
reference schemas in the deployment XML, but instead exports mappings
configured in accordance to specific schemas.

EIS queries use `+XMLInteraction+`. For more information, see
link:Using%20Basic%20Query%20API%20(ELUG)#Using_EIS_Interactions[Using
EIS Interactions].

=== How to Create an EIS Project with XML Records Using Workbench

Refer to
link:Creating%20a%20Project%20(ELUG)#How_to_Create_a_Project_Using_the_Workbench[How
to Create a Project Using the Workbench] for this information.

== Creating an EIS Project with Indexed or Mapped Records

Workbench does not currently support non-XML EIS projects. You must
create such an EIS project in Java.

Using Java, you can create an EIS project for transactional persistence
of Java objects to a nonrelational data source accessed using a JCA
adapter and any supported EIS record type including indexed, mapped, or
XML records.

If you use XML records, the EclipseLink runtime performs XML data
conversion based on one or more XML schemas. When you create an EIS
project in Java, you configure mappings with respect to these schemas,
but the EclipseLink runtime does not directly reference them.

You can base queries on any supported EIS interaction:
`+IndexedInteraction+`, `+MappedInteraction+` (including
`+QueryStringInteraction+`), or `+XMLInteraction+` (including
`+XQueryInteraction+`). For more information, see
link:Using%20Basic%20Query%20API%20(ELUG)#Using_EIS_Interactions[Using
EIS Interactions].

=== How to Create an EIS Project with Indexed or Mapped Records Using Java

Refer to
link:Creating%20a%20Project%20(ELUG)#How_to_Create_a_Project_Using_Java[How
to Create a Project Using Java] for this information.

'''''

_link:EclipseLink_User's_Guide_Copyright_Statement[Copyright Statement]_

Category:_EclipseLink_User's_Guide[Category: EclipseLink Userâ€™s Guide]
Category:_Release_1[Category: Release 1] Category:_Task[Category: Task]
Category:_EIS[Category: EIS]
