*TOC*
Special:Whatlinkshere_Creating_a_Relational_Descriptor_(ELUG)[Related
Topics]

After you create a descriptor, you must configure its various options
(see link:Configuring%20a%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)[Configuring a
Descriptor]) and use it to define mappings.

For information on the various types of mapping that EclipseLink
supports, see link:Introduction%20to%20Mappings%20(ELUG)[Introduction to
Mappings] and link:Creating%20a%20Mapping%20(ELUG)[Creating a Mapping].

For information on the various types of descriptor that EclipseLink
supports, see link:Introduction%20to%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)[Descriptor
Types].

For more information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Relational%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)[Introduction
to Relational Descriptors].

== Creating a Relational Descriptor

You can create a relational descriptor using
link:#How_to_Create_a_Relational_Descriptor_Using_Workbench[the
Workbench] or
link:#How_to_Create_a_Relational_Descriptor_Using_Java[Java code].

=== How to Create a Relational Descriptor Using Workbench

Using Workbench, you can create the following types of descriptor in a
relational project:

* link:#Creating_Relational_Class_Descriptors[Relational class
descriptors];
* link:#Creating_Relational_Aggregate_Descriptors[Relational aggregate
descriptors];
* link:#Creating_Relational_Interface_Descriptors[Relational interface
descriptors].

==== Creating Relational Class Descriptors

image:clsesin.gif[Class descriptor icon,title="Class descriptor icon"]
By default, when you add a Java class to a relational project (see
link:Configuring%20a%20Project%20(ELUG)[Configuring Project Classpath]),
the Workbench creates a relational class descriptor for it. A class
descriptor is applicable to any persistent object except an object that
is owned by another in an aggregate relationship. In this case, you must
describe the owned object with
link:#Creating_Relational_Aggregate_Descriptors[an aggregate
descriptor]. Using a class descriptor, you can configure any relational
mapping except aggregate collection and aggregate object mappings.

==== Creating Relational Aggregate Descriptors

image:agdesbtn.gif[Aggregate Descriptor
button,title="Aggregate Descriptor button"] An aggregate object is an
object that is strictly dependent on its owning object. Aggregate
descriptors do not define a table, primary key, or many of the standard
descriptor options as they obtain these from their owning descriptor. If
you want to configure an aggregate mapping to associate data members in
a target object with fields in a source object’s underlying database
tables (see
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20Aggregate%20Collection%20Mapping%20(ELUG)[Configuring
a Relational Aggregate Collection Mapping] and
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20Aggregate%20Object%20Mapping_(ELUG)[Configuring
a Relational Aggregate Object Mapping]), you must designate the target
object’s descriptor as
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_a_Relational_Descriptor_as_a_Class_or_Aggregate_Type[an
aggregate].

==== Creating Relational Interface Descriptors

.Interface descriptor icon
image::ifdescin.gif[Interface descriptor
icon,title="Interface descriptor icon"]

If you add an interface to a relational project (see
link:Configuring%20a%20Project%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Project_Classpath[Configuring
Project Classpath]), the Workbench creates an interface descriptor for
it.

An interface is a collection of abstract behavior that other classes can
use. It is a purely Java concept and has no representation on the
relational database. Therefore, a descriptor defined for the interfaces
does not map any relational entities on the database.

The interface descriptor includes the following elements:

* The Java interface it describes.
* The parent interface(s) it implements.
* A list of abstract query keys.

An interface descriptor does not define any mappings, because there is
no concrete data or table associated with it. A list of abstract query
keys is defined so that you can issue
link:Configuring%20a%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Interface_Query_Keys[queries
on the interfaces]. A read query on the interface results in reading one
or more of its implementors.

=== How to Create a Relational Descriptor Using Java

This example shows how to create a relational descriptor using Java
code.

[#Example 27-1]## *_Creating a Relational Descriptor in Java_*

[source,java]
----
 RelationalDescriptor descriptor = new RelationalDescriptor();
 descriptor.setJavaClass(YourClass.class);
----

To designate a relational descriptor as an aggregate, use
`+ClassDescriptor+` method `+descriptorIsAggregate+`. For a
`+RelationalDescriptor+` configured as an aggregate, you do not define a
primary key, but when using Java, you must configure the
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Associated_Tables[associated
table] and link:Introduction%20to%20Mappings%20(ELUG)[field mappings].

To allow a relational descriptor to participate in an
link:Introduction%20to%20Relational%20Mappings%20(ELUG)#Aggregate_Collection_Mapping[Aggregate
Collection Mapping], use `+ClassDescriptor+` method
`+descriptorIsAggregateCollection+`. For a `+RelationalDescriptor+`
configured for use with an aggregate collection mapping, you do
link:Configuring%20a%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Primary_Keys[define
primary keys] and an
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Associated_Tables[associated
table], but you do not have to map the primary keys if they are shared
from their parent.

To configure a relational descriptor for an interface, use
`+ClassDescriptor+` method `+setJavaInterface+`, passing in the
`+java.lang.Class+` of the interface. You should only use an interface
descriptor for an interface that has multiple implementors. If an
interface has only a single implementor, then rather than creating an
interface descriptor, just set the implementor descriptor’s
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Interface_Alias[interface
alias].

'''''

_link:EclipseLink_User's_Guide_Copyright_Statement[Copyright Statement]_

Category:_EclipseLink_User's_Guide[Category: EclipseLink User’s Guide]
Category:_Task[Category: Task] Category:_Concept[Category: Concept]
Category:_ORM[Category: ORM]
