image:Elug_draft_icon.png[Image:Elug draft
icon.png,title="Image:Elug draft icon.png"] *For the latest EclipseLink
documentation, please see
http://www.eclipse.org/eclipselink/documentation/*

'''''

*TOC* Special:Whatlinkshere_Creating_an_EIS_Descriptor_(ELUG)[Related
Topics]

This section explains how to create descriptor options specific to an
EIS descriptor.

After you create a descriptor, you must configure its various options
(see link:Configuring%20an%20EIS%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)[Configuring an
EIS Descriptor]) and use it to define mappings.

For information on the various types of mapping that EclipseLink
supports, see link:Introduction%20to%20Mappings%20(ELUG)[Introduction to
Mappings] and link:Creating%20a%20Mapping%20(ELUG)#CBBHHHJC[Creating a
Mapping].

For information on the various types of descriptor that EclipseLink
supports, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)#Descriptor_Types[Descriptor
Types].

For more information, see the following:

* link:Introduction%20to%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)#CHECEAAE[Introduction to
Descriptors]
* link:Introduction%20to%20EIS%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)[Introduction to
EIS Descriptors]

== Creating an EIS Descriptor

You can create an EIS descriptor using
link:#How_to_Create_an_EIS_Descriptor_Using_Workbench[the Workbench] or
link:#How_to_Create_an_EIS_Descriptor_Using_Java[Java code]. We
recommend that you use the Workbench to create and manage your EIS
descriptors.

=== How to Create an EIS Descriptor Using Workbench

Using Workbench, you can create the following types of EIS descriptor in
an EIS project:

* link:#EIS_Root_Descriptors[EIS Root Descriptors]
* link:#EIS_Composite_Descriptors[EIS Composite Descriptors]

==== EIS Root Descriptors

image:eisdesin.gif[EIS root descriptor
button,title="EIS root descriptor button"] You can modify an EIS
descriptor’s behavior by configuring it as a root EIS descriptor (see
link:Configuring%20an%20EIS%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_an_EIS_Descriptor_as_a_Root_or_Composite_Type[Configuring
an EIS Descriptor as a Root or Composite Type]). When you designate an
EIS descriptor as a root, you tell the EclipseLink runtime that the EIS
descriptor’s reference class is a parent class: no other class will
reference it by way of a composite object mapping or composite
collection mapping. Using an EIS root descriptor, you can configure all
supported mappings. You can also configure an EIS root descriptor with
link:Using%20Basic%20Query%20API%20(ELUG)#Using_EIS_Interactions[EIS
Interactions]. However, if you configure the EIS root descriptor with a
composite object mapping or composite collection mapping, the reference
descriptor you define must be an EIS composite descriptor; it cannot be
another EIS root descriptor.

==== EIS Composite Descriptors

image:eisdescompicon.gif[EIS composite descriptor
button,title="EIS composite descriptor button"] By default, when you add
a class to an EIS project (see
link:Configuring%20a%20Project%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Project_Classpath[Configuring
Project Classpath]), Workbench creates an EIS descriptor for the class,
and designates the EIS descriptor as a composite. When you designate an
EIS descriptor as a composite, you tell the EclipseLink runtime that the
EIS descriptor’s reference class may be referenced by a composite object
mapping or composite collection mapping. Using an EIS composite
descriptor, you can configure all supported mappings. However, you
cannot configure an EIS composite descriptor with EIS interactions: for
this, you need an link:#EIS_Root_Descriptors[EIS Root Descriptor].

=== How to Create an EIS Descriptor Using Java

This example shows how to create a relational descriptor using Java
code.

[#Example 71-1]## *_Creating an EIS Descriptor in Java_*

`+EISDescriptor descriptor = new EISDescriptor();+`
`+descriptor.setJavaClass(YourClass.class);+`

To designate an EIS descriptor as a composite, use `+ClassDescriptor+`
method `+descriptorIsAggregate+`.

'''''

_link:EclipseLink_User's_Guide_Copyright_Statement[Copyright Statement]_

Category:_EclipseLink_User's_Guide[Category: EclipseLink User’s Guide]
Category:_Release_1[Category: Release 1] Category:_Concept[Category:
Concept] Category:_EIS[Category: EIS]
