*TOC*
Special:Whatlinkshere_Creating_an_Object-Relational_Data_Type_Descriptor_(ELUG)[Related
Topics]

After you create a descriptor, you must configure its various options
(see link:Configuring%20a%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)[Configuring a
Descriptor]) and use it to define mappings.

For complete information on the various types of mapping that
EclipseLink supports, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Mappings%20(ELUG)[Introduction to Mappings] and
link:Creating%20a%20Mapping%20(ELUG)[Creating a Mapping].

For complete information on the various types of descriptor that
EclipseLink supports, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)#Descriptor_Types[Descriptor
Types].

For more information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Object-Relational%20Data%20Type%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)[Introduction
to Object-Relational Data Type Descriptors].

== Creating an Object-Relational Data Type Descriptor

You cannot create an object-relational data type descriptor using the
Workbench: you must use Java code. For more information on creating
descriptors in Java code, see the _EclipseLink API Reference_.

For more information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Object-Relational%20Data%20Type%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)#Object-Relational_Data_Type_Descriptors[Object-Relational
Data Type Descriptors].

=== How to Create an Object-Relational Data Type Descriptor Using Java

Use the `+ObjectRelationalDescriptor+` class to define an
object-relational data type descriptor. This class extends
`+RelationalDescriptor+` to add the following methods:

* `+setStructureName+`: call this method to set the name of the
object-relational data type structure that represents the object class
in the data source.
* `+addFieldOrdering+`: call this method repeatedly to define the order
in which object attributes are persisted to the data source. This
defines a field index that EclipseLink uses if your object-relational
data type data source driver uses JDBC indexed arrays.

This example shows an `+Employee+` object that is mapped to an Oracle
Database using its object-relational data type features.

[#Example 30-1]## *_Employee Class_*

[source,java]
----
 public class Employee {
     Long id;
     String firstName;
     String lastName;

     ...
 }
----

This example shows the object-relational data type database type
(`+Employee_t+`) created to model the `+Employee+` object within the
database. Such an object-relational data type database type is also
known as a structure. This example also shows how to create and populate
a database table (called `+department+`) that stores instances of the
`+Employee_t+` audio tape.

[#Example 30-2]## *_Employee Object-Relational Data Type Data Model_*

[source,sql]
----
 CREATE TYPE EMPLOYEE_T AS OBJECT(ID NUMBER(10),
                                  F_NAME VARCHAR2(100),
                                  L_NAME VARCHAR2(100),) NOT FINAL;
 CREATE TABLE EMPLOYEES OF EMPLOYEE_T;
----

This example shows how to code an object-relational data type descriptor
in Java to describe the object-relational data type database type
`+Employee_t+`.

[#Example 30-3]## *_Creating an Object-Relational Data Type Descriptor
in Java_*

[source,java]
----
 import org.eclipse.persistence.mappings.structures.*;
 ...
 ObjectRelationalDescriptor descriptor = new ObjectRelationalDescriptor();
 descriptor.setJavaClass(Employee.class);
 descriptor.setTableName("EMPLOYEES");
 descriptor.setStructureName("EMPLOYEE_T");
 descriptor.setPrimaryKeyFieldName("ID");
 descriptor.addFieldOrdering("ID");
 descriptor.addFieldOrdering("F_NAME");
 descriptor.addFieldOrdering("L_NAME");
 descriptor.addDirectMapping("id", "OBJECT_ID");
 descriptor.addDirectMapping("firstName", "F_NAME");
 descriptor.addDirectMapping("lastName", "L_NAME");
----

For more information on configuring object-relational data type
descriptors, see
link:Configuring%20an%20Object-Relational%20Data%20Type%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)[Configuring
an Object-Relational Data Type Descriptor].

For more information on the object-relational data type mappings that
EclipseLink supports, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Object-Relational%20Data%20Type%20Mappings%20(ELUG)[Introduction
to Object-Relational Data Type Mappings].

'''''

_link:EclipseLink_User's_Guide_Copyright_Statement[Copyright Statement]_

Category:_EclipseLink_User's_Guide[Category: EclipseLink Userâ€™s Guide]
Category:_Release_1[Category: Release 1] Category:_Task[Category: Task]
Category:_ORM[Category: ORM]
