image:Elug_draft_icon.png[Image:Elug draft
icon.png,title="Image:Elug draft icon.png"] *For the latest EclipseLink
documentation, please see
http://www.eclipse.org/eclipselink/documentation/*

'''''

*TOC*
Special:Whatlinkshere_Creating_an_Internal_Connection_Pool_(ELUG)[Related
Topics]

For information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Data%20Access%20(ELUG)#Internal_Connection_Pools[Internal
Connection Pools].

== Introduction to the Internal Connection Pool Creation

You can create internal connection pools only for server sessions (not
for any other session type, including database sessions). For more
information, see link:#Creating_an_Internal_Connection_Pool[Creating an
Internal Connection Pool].

After you create an internal connection pool, you must configure its
various options.

After you create and configure a sequence connection pool, EclipseLink
uses it whenever it needs to assign an identifier to a new object.

After you create and configure a named connection pool, you use it in
your application by passing in a `+ConnectionPolicy+` when you acquire a
client session (see
link:Acquiring%20and%20Using%20Sessions%20at%20Run%20Time%20(ELUG)#How_to_Acquire_a_Client_Session_that_Uses_a_Named_Connection_Pool[How
to Acquire a Client Session that Uses a Named Connection Pool]).

== Creating an Internal Connection Pool

You can create an internal connection pool using the Workbench (see
link:#How_to_Create_an_Internal_Connection_Pool_Using_Workbench[How to
Create an Internal Connection Pool Using Workbench]) or Java code. We
recommend that you use the Workbench to create and manage your internal
connection pools.

Alternatively, you can create internal connection pools in Java. For
more information on creating sessions in Java, see the ’’EclipseLink API
Reference.

=== How to Create an Internal Connection Pool Using Workbench

Before you create a connection pool, you must first create a server
session (see
link:Creating%20a%20Session%20(ELUG)#Creating_a_Server_Session[Creating
a Server Session]).

To create a new EclipseLink internal connection pool, use this
procedure:

[arabic]
. Select the server session in the *Navigator* in which you want to
create a connection pool.
. image:conpolbt.gif[Create New Sequence Connection Pool
button,title="Create New Sequence Connection Pool button"] Click the
appropriate button on the toolbar to create the type of connection pool
you want:
* To create a named connection pool, select *Create a New Named
Connection Pool*, enter a name, and click *OK*.
* To create a sequence connection pool, select *Add the Sequence
Connection Pool*.
* To create a write connection pool, select *Add the Write Connection
Pool*.

You can also create a new internal connection pool by right-clicking the
server session configuration in the *Navigator* and selecting *New >
Named Connection Pool*, *Sequence Connection Pool*, or *Write Connection
Pool* from the context menu.

=== How to Create an Internal Connection Pool Using Java

Using Java, you can create read, write, and named connection pools. The
#Example:Creating_Connection_Pools[Creating Connection Pools example]
shows how to create connection pools. The
#Example:Using_a_Single_Pool_for_Read_and_Write[Using a Single Pool for
Read and Write example] shows an optimized connection pool, using the
same connetion for both read and write operations.

[#Example:Creating Connection Pools]## *_Creating Connection Pools_*

`+// Read+` `+ConnectionPool pool = new ConnectionPool();+`
`+pool.setName("read");+` `+pool.setLogin(login);+`
`+pool.setMaxNumberOfConnections(50);+`
`+pool.setMinNumberOfConnections(50);+`
`+serverSession.setReadConnectionPool(pool);+`

`+// Write+` `+ConnectionPool pool = new ConnectionPool();+`
`+pool.setName("default");+` `+pool.setLogin(login);+`
`+pool.setMaxNumberOfConnections(50);+`
`+pool.setMinNumberOfConnections(50);+`
`+serverSession.addConnectionPool(pool);+`

`+// Named+` `+ConnectionPool pool = new ConnectionPool();+`
`+pool.setName("admin");+` `+pool.setLogin(login);+`
`+pool.setMaxNumberOfConnections(2);+`
`+pool.setMinNumberOfConnections(2);+`
`+serverSession.addConnectionPool(pool);+`

[#Using a Single Pool for Read and Write]## You can also use a single
connection pools for both read and write operations, when the read and
write pools use the same login information. This method requires fewer
connections

*_Using a Single Pool for Read and Write_*

`+ConnectionPool pool = new ConnectionPool();+`
`+pool.setName("default");+` `+pool.setLogin(login);+`
`+pool.setMaxNumberOfConnections(50);+`
`+pool.setMinNumberOfConnections(50);+`
`+serverSession.setReadConnectionPool(pool);+`
`+serverSession.addConnectionPool(pool);+`

'''''

_link:EclipseLink_User's_Guide_Copyright_Statement[Copyright Statement]_

Category:_EclipseLink_User's_Guide[Category: EclipseLink User’s Guide]
Category:_Release_1[Category: Release 1] Category:_Task[Category: Task]
