image:Elug_draft_icon.png[Image:Elug draft
icon.png,title="Image:Elug draft icon.png"] *For the latest EclipseLink
documentation, please see
http://www.eclipse.org/eclipselink/documentation/*

'''''

*TOC*
Special:Whatlinkshere_EclipseLink_Workbench_Error_Reference_(ELUG)[Related
topics]

EclipseLink checks each project, descriptor, and mapping to ensure that
you have properly defined the required settings. Errors and warnings are
displayed in the
link:Using_Workbench_(ELUG)#How_to_Use_the_Problems_Window[Problems
window] of the EclipseLink Workbench.

You can also create a
link:Creating_a_Project_(ELUG)#How_to_Generate_the_Project_Status_Report[project
status report] that contains all errors in a specific project.

This section also includes information on the following:

* link:#Common_Classpath_Problems[Common Classpath Problems]
* link:#Database_Connection_Problems[Database Connection Problems]

== Miscellaneous Errors (1 – 89, 106 – 133)

This section lists EclipseLink Workbench error codes, information about
the likely cause of the problem, and a possible corrective action.

13: No class indicator field should be defined for the abstract class
[class]. *Cause*: Abstract classes should not be included or contain an
*Indicator Value* on a descriptor’s *Inheritance* tab.

*Action*: You must either remove the *Include* option for the class on
the *Inheritance* tab, or remove the *abstract modifier* option on the
descriptor’s *Class Info – Class* tab. See
link:Introduction_to_Descriptors_(ELUG)#Descriptors_and_Inheritance[Descriptors
and Inheritance] and
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_a_Descriptor[Configuring
a Descriptor].

54: No class indicator field is selected for this root class. *Cause*:
You selected the *Use Class Indicator Field* option for the root
descriptor in the inheritance hierarchy, but did not specify an
indicator field for the root and its children.

*Action*: Use the *Field Selection* list on the *Inheritance* tab for
the root class. See
link:Introduction_to_Descriptors_(ELUG)#Descriptors_and_Inheritance[Descriptors
and Inheritance] and
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_a_Descriptor[Configuring
a Descriptor].

55: No class indicator value is defined for this included descriptor
[class] *Cause*: You selected the *Use Class Indicator Dictionary*
option for the root descriptor in the inheritance hierarchy, but did not
specify an indicator value for the root and its children.

*Action*: Use the *Indicator Type* list on the **Inheritance**tab for
the root class. See
link:Introduction_to_Descriptors_(ELUG)#Descriptors_and_Inheritance[Descriptors
and Inheritance] and
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_a_Descriptor[Configuring
a Descriptor].

89: Root class does not include an indicator mapping for this
descriptor. *Cause*: The root class in the inheritance hierarchy is set
to the *Use Class Indicator Dictionary* option. The dictionary does not
contain an indicator value for this child class.

*Action*: Select an *Indicator Type* on the **Inheritance**tab of the
root class that includes the child types. See
link:Introduction_to_Descriptors_(ELUG)#Descriptors_and_Inheritance[Descriptors
and Inheritance] and
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_a_Descriptor[Configuring
a Descriptor].

106: Mulitple mapping [mappings] write to the database field [db field]
. *Cause*: One database field is populated by more than one mapping

*Action*: Ensure the "`one mapping per field`" ratio for write
operations.

118: The selected parent descriptor for this descriptor’s inheritance
policy does not have an associated inheritance policy. *Cause*: Missing
descriptor’s inheritance policy.

*Action*: Ensure that the descriptor you are using has a valid
associated inheritance policy (`+InheritancePolicy+`). See
link:Introduction_to_Descriptors_(ELUG)#Descriptors_and_Inheritance[Descriptors
and Inheritance] and
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Inheritance_for_a_Parent_(Root)_Descriptor[Configuring
Inheritance for a Parent (Root) Descriptor].

123: This root class has no class indicator mappings for its hierarchy.
*Cause*: You created an inheritance policy with the **Use Class
Indicator Dictionary**option but did not specify the indicator values
for all subclasses.

*Action*: Specify the indicator values for all subclasses on the
descriptor’s **Inheritance**tab. See
link:Introduction_to_Descriptors_(ELUG)#Descriptors_and_Inheritance[Descriptors
and Inheritance] and
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Inheritance_for_a_Child_(Branch_or_Leaf)_Class_Descriptor[Configuring
Inheritance for a Child (Branch or Leaf) Class Descriptor].

[width="100%",cols="<100%",]
|===
|*Note*: EclipseLink displays a list of each subclass and indicator
value if you have identified the subclasses’ parent descriptor.
|===

126: Writable mappings defined for the class indicator field [field
name]. *Cause*: You selected the **Use Class Indicator Field**option for
the root descriptor in the inheritance hierarchy, but the mappings for
this field are writable.

*Action*: Select a **Use Class Indicator Field**on the descriptor’s
**Inheritance**tab that does not contain any writable mappings. See the
following:

* link:Introduction_to_Descriptors_(ELUG)#Descriptors_and_Inheritance[Descriptors
and Inheritance]
* link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_a_Descriptor[Configuring
a Descriptor]
* link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Inheritance_for_a_Child_(Branch_or_Leaf)_Class_Descriptor[Configuring
Inheritance for a Child (Branch or Leaf) Class Descriptor]
* link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Inherited_Attribute_Mapping_in_a_Subclass[Configuring
Inherited Attribute Mapping in a Subclass]

132: The implemented interface [interface] is not an interface. *Cause*:
You selected a noninterface (a class) as an implemented interface.

*Action*: Ensure that you select an interface. See
link:Introduction_to_Descriptors_(ELUG)#Descriptors_and_Inheritance[Descriptors
and Inheritance] and
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_a_Descriptor[Configuring
a Descriptor].

133: The superclass for [class] is an interface, classes cannot extend
interfaces. *Cause*: You selected an interface instead of a class as a
parent for your child class.

*Action*: Use the **Inheritance**tab for the root class. See
link:Introduction_to_Descriptors_(ELUG)#Descriptors_and_Inheritance[Descriptors
and Inheritance] and
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_a_Descriptor[Configuring
a Descriptor].

== Project Errors (100 – 102)

This section lists EclipseLink Workbench project errors.

100: The project caches all statments by default for queries, but does
not bind all parameters. *Cause*: A named query that caches statements
must also bind parameters.

*Action*: On the **Named Queries – Options**tab, change the **Cache
Statement**field to *False*, or change the **Bind Parameters**field to
*True*. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Named_Query_Options[Configuring
Named Query Options].

101: The project uses a custom sequence table, but the counter field is
not specified. *Cause*: On the project’s **Sequencing**tab, you selected
*Use Custom Sequence Table*, but did not complete the **Counter
Field**field.

*Action*: Select the field to use as the Counter Field for this sequence
table. See
link:Configuring_a_Relational_Project_(ELUG)#Configuring_Sequencing_at_the_Project_Level[Configuring
Sequencing at the Project Level] for details.

102: The project uses a custom sequence table, but the name field is not
specified. *Cause*: On the project’s **Sequencing**tab, you selected
*Use Custom Sequence Table*, but did not complete the **Name
Field**field.

*Action*: Select the field to use as the **Name Field**for this sequence
table. See
link:Configuring_a_Relational_Project_(ELUG)#Configuring_Sequencing_at_the_Project_Level[Configuring
Sequencing at the Project Level] for details.

== Descriptor Errors (200 – 399)

This section lists EclipseLink Workbench descriptor errors.

200: The descriptor’s class is not public. *Cause*: The descriptor must
use a public access modifier.

*Action*: On the descriptor’s **Class Info – Class**tab, change the
**Access Modifier**option to *Public*. See
link:Using_Workbench_(ELUG)#How_to_Configure_Classes[How to Configure
Classes] and
link:Using_Workbench_(ELUG)#Configuring_Class_Modifiers[Configuring
Class Modifiers].

201: This class is a subclass of a final class. *Cause*: If you select
the **Final**option on the descriptor’s **Class Info – Class**tab for a
class, then the class cannot contain subclasses.

*Action*: See link:Using_Workbench_(ELUG)#How_to_Configure_Classes[How
to Configure Classes] and
link:Using_Workbench_(ELUG)#Configuring_Class_Information[Configuring
Class Information].

210: Two methods [method name1] [method name2] cannot have the same
signature. *Cause*: You created methods with identical signatures.

*Action*: On the **Class Info – Methods**tab, change the information for
one of the methods. See
link:Using_Workbench_(ELUG)#How_to_Configure_Classes[How to Configure
Classes] and link:Using_Workbench_(ELUG)#Adding_Methods[Adding Methods].

211: The format for [date] must be in the format HH-MM-SS or HH:MM:SS.
Literal argument of expression [line number] on query [query name] is
invalid. *Cause*: You attempted to use an invalid argument on a query.

*Action*: Use HH-MM-SS or HH:MM:SS format. See
link:Introduction_to_Mappings_(ELUG)#Type_Conversion_Converter[Type
Conversion Converter] and
link:Configuring_a_Mapping_(ELUG)#Configuring_a_Type_Conversion_Converter[Configuring
a Type Conversion Converter].

212: The format for [date] must be in the format YYYY/MM/DD HH:MM:SS or
YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS. Literal argument of expression [line number] on
query [query name] is invalid. *Cause*: You attempted to use an invalid
argument on a query.

*Action*: Use YYYY/MM/DD HH:MM:SS or YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS format. See
link:Introduction_to_Mappings_(ELUG)#Type_Conversion_Converter[Type
Conversion Converter] and
link:Configuring_a_Mapping_(ELUG)#Configuring_a_Type_Conversion_Converter[Configuring
a Type Conversion Converter].

213: The format for [date] must be in the format YYYY/MM/DD or
YYYY-MM-DD. Literal argument of expression [line number] on query [query
name] is invalid. *Cause*: You attempted to use an invalid argument on a
query.

*Action*: Use YYYY/MM/DD or YYYY-MM-DD format. See
link:Introduction_to_Mappings_(ELUG)#Type_Conversion_Converter[Type
Conversion Converter] and
link:Configuring_a_Mapping_(ELUG)#Configuring_a_Type_Conversion_Converter[Configuring
a Type Conversion Converter].

214: The format for [date] must be in the format YYYY/MM/DD HH:MM:SS,
YYYY/MM/DD, or YYYY-MM-DD. Literal argument of expression [line number]
on query [query name] is invalid. *Cause*: You attempted to use an
invalid argument on a query.

*Action*: Use YYYY/MM/DD HH:MM:SS, YYYY/MM/DD, or YYYY-MM-DD format. See
link:Introduction_to_Mappings_(ELUG)#Type_Conversion_Converter[Type
Conversion Converter] and
link:Configuring_a_Mapping_(ELUG)#Configuring_a_Type_Conversion_Converter[Configuring
a Type Conversion Converter].

215: The format for [argument] must be an even length HEX string.
Literal argument of expression [line number] on query [query name] is
invalid. *Cause*: You attempted to use an invalid argument on a query.

*Action*: Use HEX format. See
link:Introduction_to_Mappings_(ELUG)#Type_Conversion_Converter[Type
Conversion Converter].

216: The format for [argument] must be a string. Literal argument of
expression [line number] on query [query name] is invalid. *Cause*: You
attempted to use an invalid argument on a query.

*Action*: Use a `+String+`. See
link:Introduction_to_Mappings_(ELUG)#Type_Conversion_Converter[Type
Conversion Converter].

217: Literal argument of expression [line number] on query [query name]
is invalid. The format is illegal. *Cause*: You attempted to use an
invalid argument on a query.

*Action*: Use a valid format.

220: An aggregate shared by multiple source descriptors cannot have
one-to-many or many-to-many mappings. *Cause*: You attempted to create
multiple one-to-many and many-to-many, or one-to-one mappings in which
the target is the aggregate. Aggregate descriptors that are shared by
multiple source descriptors cannot have mappings that contain a target
object that references the descriptor.

*Action*: For aggregate descriptors that are shared by multiple source
descriptors, remove mappings that contain a target object that
references the descriptor. See
link:Introduction_to_Descriptors_(ELUG)#Descriptors[Descriptors] and
link:Creating_a_Relational_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Creating_Relational_Aggregate_Descriptors[Creating
Relational Aggregate Descriptors].

221: Classes cannot reference an aggregate target with one-to-one,
one-to-many, or many-to-many mappings. *Cause*: You tried to select an
aggregate descriptor as a reference.

*Action*: Do not select an aggregate descriptor as the **Reference
Descriptor**for a one-to-one, one-to-many, or many-to-many mapping. See
link:Introduction_to_Descriptors_(ELUG)#Descriptors[Descriptors] and
link:Creating_a_Relational_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Creating_Relational_Aggregate_Descriptors[Creating
Relational Aggregate Descriptors].

225: The implementor [implementor name] no longer implements this
interface. *Cause*: One descriptor listed as an implementation method
for this interface descriptor no longer implements this descriptor’s
interface.

*Action*: Either remove the descriptor from the list of implementation
methods or alter the descriptor’s class so that it implements this
descriptor’s interface. See
link:Introduction_to_Descriptors_(ELUG)#Descriptors[Descriptors] and
link:Creating_a_Relational_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Creating_Relational_Interface_Descriptors[Creating
Relational Interface Descriptors].

230: No primary table is specified. *Cause*: The descriptor is not
associated with a database table.

*Action*: On the descriptor’s **Descriptor Info**tab, use the
**Associated Table**field to select a primary table. See
link:Configuring_a_Relational_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Associated_Tables[Configuring
Associated Tables].

231: No primary key(s) specified in [table name] table. *Cause*: You did
not specify a primary key for each database table. When importing tables
from a database into EclipseLink Workbench, the primary key information
will be retained only if the JDBC driver supports the `+getPrimaryKeys+`
method.

*Action*: Ensure that a primary key is specified for each descriptor on
the **Descriptor Info**tab. See
link:Configuring_a_Relational_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Associated_Tables[Configuring
Associated Tables].

232: The following primary key field is unmapped [field name]. *Cause*:
The primary key field does not have a writable mapping.

*Action*: Ensure that the primary key(s) are mapped. See
link:Configuring_a_Relational_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Associated_Tables[Configuring
Associated Tables].

233: The number of primary keys does not match the number of primary
keys on the parent. *Cause*: In an inheritance hierarchy, the child
class does not have the same number of primary keys as the parent class.

*Action*: Ensure that the parent and child class have the same number of
primary keys on the descriptor’s **Descriptor Info**tab. See
link:Configuring_a_Relational_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Associated_Tables[Configuring
Associated Tables].

234: The primary keys do not match parent’s primary keys. *Cause*: In an
inheritance hierarchy, the child’s primary key(s) does not match the
root’s primary key(s).

*Action*: Ensure that each child’s **Primary Key**on the **Descriptor
Info**tab matches the parent’s primary key. Ensure that the parent and
child class have the same primary keys on the descriptor’s **Descriptor
Info**tab. See
link:Configuring_a_Relational_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Associated_Tables[Configuring
Associated Tables].

235: The following primary field field does not have writable mappings:
[field name]. *Cause*: You attempted to have multiple mappings write to
the same database field.

*Action*: Ensure that each database field has a single, writable
mapping. See link:Configuring_a_Relational_Descriptor_(ELUG)[Configuring
a Relational Descriptor].

236: No sequence field is selected. *Cause*: You selected **Use
Sequencing**on a descriptor’s **Descriptor Info**tab, but did not
specify the sequence information.

*Action*: Specify a *Name*, *Table*, and *Field*. See
link:Configuring_a_Relational_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Sequencing_at_the_Descriptor_Level[Configuring
Sequencing at the Descriptor Level].

237: No sequence name is selected. *Cause*: You selected Use Sequencing
on a descriptor’s Descriptor Info tab but did not specify the sequence
information.

*Action*: Specify a Name, Table, and Field. See
link:Configuring_a_Relational_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Sequencing_at_the_Descriptor_Level[Configuring
Sequencing at the Descriptor Level].

238: No sequence table is selected. *Cause*: You selected Use Sequencing
on a descriptor’s Descriptor Info tab but did not specify the sequence
information.

*Action*: Specify a Name, Table, and Field. See
link:Configuring_a_Relational_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Sequencing_at_the_Descriptor_Level[Configuring
Sequencing at the Descriptor Level].

239: The selected sequence table is not one of the descriptor’s
associated tables. *Cause*: The tabled used for sequencing is not
associated with the descriptor.

*Action*: You must either associate the sequencing table with the
descriptor, or select a table that is already associated with the
descriptor.
Seelink:Configuring_a_Relational_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Sequencing_at_the_Descriptor_Level[Configuring
Sequencing at the Descriptor Level] and
link:Configuring_a_Relational_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Associated_Tables[Configuring
Associated Tables].

240: Two queries [query name1] [query name2] cannot have the same
signature. *Cause*: Two queries for this descriptor share the same
signature (query name + parameter names). This is not allowed.

*Action*: You must either remove one of the queries, rename one of the
queries, or change the parameters so that the signatures no longer
match.

241: The query [query name] has Cache Statement set to true, but does
not bind parameters. *Cause*: A named query that caches statements does
not bind parameters. It must do so.

*Action*: On the Named Queries – Options tab, either change the Cache
Statements field to False, or change the Bind Parameters field to True.
See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Named_Query_Options[Configuring
Named Query Options].

242: The query [query name] does not maintain cache but does refresh the
remote identity map results. *Cause*: The query has Refresh Remote
Identity Map selected, but does not have Maintain Cache selected.

*Action*: You must either select Maintain Cache for the descriptor, or
deselect Refresh Remote Identity Map. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Named_Query_Options[Configuring
Named Query Options].

243: The query [query name] does not maintain cache but does refresh the
identity map results. *Cause*: The query has Refresh Identity Map
selected but does not have Maintain Cache selected.

*Action*: You must either select Maintain Cache for the descriptor, or
deselect Refresh Identity Map. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Named_Query_Options[Configuring
Named Query Options].

245: The query [query name] refreshes identity map results but does not
refresh remote identity map results. *Cause*: Refresh Identity Map
Results is selected for the query, but Refresh Remote Identity Map
Results is not.

*Action*: You must either select Refresh Remote Identity Maps or
deselect Refresh Identity Maps. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Named_Query_Options[Configuring
Named Query Options].

246: The query key [query key] does not have an associated database
field. *Cause*: The query key is missing an associated database field.
Each query key must be associated with a database field.

*Action*: On the Query Keys tab, use the Field option to select a
database field for the query key. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Query_Keys[Configuring
Query Keys].

247: The database field selected for query key [query key] does not
exist on this descriptor’s associated tables. *Cause*: The database
field selected for this query key does not exist on this descriptor’s
associated tables. Each database field associated with a query key must
exist on database table associated with the query key’s descriptor.

*Action*: You must either change the database field associated with the
query key, or associate the descriptor with a database table that
includes the database field associated with the query key. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Query_Keys[Configuring
Query Keys].

248: The expression [line number] on query [query name] is invalid
because a parameter has not been specified. *Cause*: One of the
arguments in the query expression is missing or invalid.

*Action*: Edit the query and ensure that all query keys and parameters
have been specified. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Query_Keys[Configuring
Query Keys].

249: The expression [line number] on query [query name] is invalid
because a query key has not been specified. *Cause*: One of the
arguments in the query expression is missing or invalid.

*Action*: Edit the query and ensure that all query keys and parameters
have been specified. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Query_Keys[Configuring
Query Keys].

250: The expression [line number] on query [query name] is invalid
because the chosen query key is not a valid mapping type in an
expression. *Cause*: One of the arguments in the query expression is
invalid.

*Action*: Edit the query and ensure that all query keys and parameters
have been specified. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Query_Keys[Configuring
Query Keys].

251: The expression [line number] on query [query name] is invalid. When
querying on a reference mapping, only unary operators (Is Null, Not
Null) are supported. *Cause*: You created an expression node that
includes a reference mapping with an invalid operator.

*Action*: On the Expression Builder dialog box, select the node and
change the Operator field to IS NULL or NOT NULL.

252: The query [query name] has no attribute chosen for the ordering
attribute at index [index]. *Cause*: The ordering attribute is missing
from the query.

*Action*: Edit the query and add an ordering attribute. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Read_All_Query_Order[Configuring
Read All Query Order].

253: The ordering attribute \{0} for query \{1} is not valid.
ReadAllQuery ordering items must be either query keys or direct-to-field
mappings. *Cause*: The ordering attribute is invalid.

*Action*: Edit the query and ensure that ordering attribue is a query
key or has a direct-to-field mapping. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Read_All_Query_Order[Configuring
Read All Query Order].

254: The query \{0} has no attribute chosen for the joined attribute at
index \{1}. *Cause*: The joined attribute is missing from the query.

*Action*: Edit the query and add a joined attribute. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Named_Query_Optimization[Configuring
Named Query Optimization].

255: The joined attribute \{0} for query \{1} is not valid. Joined
attributes must be 1-1, 1-m, m-m, direct collection, or aggregate
collection mappings. *Cause*: The joined attribute is invalid.

*Action*: Edit the query and ensure that joined attribute has a
one-to-one, one-to-many, many-to-many, direct collection, or aggregate
collection mapping. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Named_Query_Optimization[Configuring
Named Query Optimization].

256: The query \{0} has no attribute chosen for the batch read attribute
at index \{1}. *Cause*: The batch read attribute is missing from the
query.

*Action*: Edit the query and add a batch read attribute. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Named_Query_Optimization[Configuring
Named Query Optimization].

257: The batch read attribute \{0} for query \{1} is not valid. Batch
read attributes must be 1-1, 1-m, m-m, direct collection, aggregate
collection, or direct-to-field mappings. *Cause*: The batch read
attribute is invalid.

*Action*: Edit the query and ensure that batch attribute has a
one-to-one, one-to-many, many-to-many, direct collection, aggregate
collection, or direct-to-field mapping. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Named_Query_Optimization[Configuring
Named Query Optimization].

258: The query \{0} has no attribute chosen for the grouping attribute
at index \{1}. *Cause*: The grouping attribute is missing from the
query.

*Action*: Edit the query and add a grouping attribute. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Named_Query_Group_Order_Options[Configuring
Named Query Group/Order Options].

259: The query \{0} has no attribute chosen for the report attribute
\{1}. *Cause*: The report query attribute is missing from the query.

*Action*: Edit the query and add a report query attribute. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Named_Query_Group_Order_Options[Configuring
Named Query Group/Order Options].

260: The report attribute \{0} for query \{1} is not valid. Report query
attributes must be either query keys or direct mappings. *Cause*: The
report attribute is invalid.

*Action*: Edit the query and ensure that report attribute is a query key
or has a direct-to-field mapping. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Named_Query_Group_Order_Options[Configuring
Named Query Group/Order Options].

262: The format for \{2} must be between 0 and 127 inclusive. Literal
argument of expression (line \{0}) on query \{1} is invalid. *Cause*:
The literal value of the expression is invalid.

*Action*: Edit the literal value of second argument in Expression
Builder. The literal value of a Byte type must be between 1 and 127. See
link:Introduction%20to%20EclipseLink%20Expressions%20(ELUG)#Creating_an_Expression[Creating
an Expression].

263: The format for \{2} must be either '`true`' or '`false`'. Literal
argument of expression (line \{0}) on query \{1} is invalid. *Cause*:
The literal value of the expression is invalid.

*Action*: Edit the literal value of Second Argument in Expression
Builder. The literal value of a Boolean type must be `+true+` or
`+false+`. See
link:Introduction%20to%20EclipseLink%20Expressions%20(ELUG)#Creating_an_Expression[Creating
an Expression].

264: The format for \{2} must be a single character. Literal argument of
expression (line \{0}) on query \{1} is invalid. *Cause*: The literal
value of the expression is invalid.

*Action*: Edit the literal value of second argument in Expression
Builder. The literal value of a Character type must be a single
character. See
link:Introduction%20to%20EclipseLink%20Expressions%20(ELUG)#Creating_an_Expression[Creating
an Expression].

265: The format for \{2} must be between \{3} and \{4}. Literal argument
of expression (line \{0}) on query \{1} is invalid. *Cause*: The literal
value of the expression is invalid.

*Action*: Edit the literal value of second argument in Expression
Builder. The literal value must be between 3 and 4. See
link:Introduction%20to%20EclipseLink%20Expressions%20(ELUG)#Creating_an_Expression[Creating
an Expression].

266: The format for \{2} must be a string. Literal argument of
expression (line \{0}) on query \{1} is invalid. *Cause*: The literal
value of the expression is invalid.

*Action*: Edit the literal value of second argument in Expression
Builder. The literal value of a String type must be a string. See
link:Introduction%20to%20EclipseLink%20Expressions%20(ELUG)#Creating_an_Expression[Creating
an Expression].

267: The format for \{2} must contain only digits, '`-`', and '`.`'.
Literal argument of expression (line \{0}) on query \{1} is invalid.
*Cause*: The literal value of the expression is invalid..

*Action*: Edit the literal value of second argument in Expression
Builder. The literal value of a Double or Float type must contain
digits, ’ - '`, and`' . ’. See
link:Introduction%20to%20EclipseLink%20Expressions%20(ELUG)#Creating_an_Expression[Creating
an Expression].

268: The format for \{2} must contain only digits, '`-`', and '`.`'.
Literal argument of expression (line \{0}) on query \{1} is invalid.
*Cause*: The literal value of the expression is invalid.

*Action*: Edit the literal value of second argument in Expression
Builder. The literal value of a Double or Float type must contain
digits, ’ - '`, and`' . ’. See
link:Introduction%20to%20EclipseLink%20Expressions%20(ELUG)#Creating_an_Expression[Creating
an Expression].

269: The format for \{2} must be in the format YYYY/MM/DD or YYYY-MM-DD.
Literal argument of expression (line \{0}) on query \{1} is invalid.
*Cause*: The literal value of the expression is invalid.

*Action*: Edit the literal value of second argument in Expression
Builder. The literal value of a Date type must be in YYYY/MM/DD or
YYYY-MM-DD format. See
link:Introduction%20to%20EclipseLink%20Expressions%20(ELUG)#Creating_an_Expression[Creating
an Expression].

270: No schema context is specified. *Cause*: Each descriptor in an XML
or EIS project must be associated with an XML schema context.

*Action*: Select the EIS or XML descriptor in the Navigator and complete
the Schema Context field on the Descriptor Info tab.

271: The descriptor represents a document root object, but no default
root element is chosen. *Cause*: Each root descriptor must have a
default root element.

*Action*: On the descriptor’s Descriptor Info tab, complete the Default
Root Element field.

280: A descriptor that represents \"`anyType\`" cannot support
inheritance. *Cause*: The descriptor was supporting inheritance.

*Action*: Edit the descriptor properties and remove the inheritance
support.

281: A descriptor that represents \"`anyType\`" may contain only a
single Any (Object or Collection) mapping. *Cause*: The descriptor was
supporting more than one Any (Object or Collection) mapping.

*Action*: Edit the descriptor properties and ensure that descriptor
supports only one Any (Object or Collection) mapping.

282: A default root element type has been selected and the default root
element is not. Either select a default root element or clear the
default root element type *Cause*: The default root element was not
selected.

*Action*: Select the default root element or clear the default root
element type. See
link:Configuring%20an%20XML%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Default_Root_Element[Configuring
Default Root Element].

290: No primary keys specified. *Cause*: Although you have associated
the descriptor with a database table, you have not identified the
primary keys.

*Action*: Use the Primary Keys area of the descriptor’s Descriptor Info
tab to select the primary keys for the descriptor.

291–304: The event policy’s [method type] method is no longer a visible
member of this descriptor’s associated class. *Cause*: You changed the
class hierarchy within the project, causing the method to no longer be
visible to the class.

*Action*: Ensure that the selected method is visible to the class.

305: The write-lock field is stored in an object, but there is not a
writable mapping to the field. *Cause*: If the write lock field is
stored in object, there must be a non-read-only mapping to it.

*Action*: On the mapping’s General tab, ensure that Read-Only is not
selected.

306: Database fields specified for Selected Fields type Locking Policy
must be mapped: [field name] *Cause*: You selected an unmapped database
field for a descriptor’s locking policy.

*Action*: On the descriptor’s Locking tab, ensure that you have selected
a mapped database field as the Selected Field. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Locking_Policy[Configuring
Locking Policy].

307: Database fields specified for Selected Fields type Locking Policy
must not be primary key fields: [field name] *Cause*: The database
fields you selected for the optimistic locking policy (by fields)
contains the primary keys for the database table.

*Action*: In the By Fields area of the descriptor’s Locking tab, select
different fields. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Locking_Policy[Configuring
Locking Policy].

308: Version locking is chosen as the Locking Policy, but the field is
not specified. *Cause*: If you select to use version locking with an
optimistic locking policy, you must identify which database field to use
for version control.

*Action*: Use the Database Field field on the descriptor’s Locking tab
to select a field to use for version control. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Locking_Policy[Configuring
Locking Policy].

309: The Version Locking database field selected does not exist on this
descriptor’s associated tables. *Cause*: The database field you selected
for optimistic version locking does not exist on the descriptor’s
associated table.

*Action*: You must either select a different database field on the
descriptor’s Locking tab, or associate the descriptor with a different
database table. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Locking_Policy[Configuring
Locking Policy].

310: Database fields specified for Selected Fields type Locking Policy
do not exist on this descriptor’s associated tables: [field name]
*Cause*: The database fields you selected for the optimistic locking
policy (by fields) do not exist on the descriptor’s associated table.

*Action*: You must either select a different database field on the
descriptor’s Locking tab, or associate the descriptor with a different
database table. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Locking_Policy[Configuring
Locking Policy].

311: The method you have specified for the instantiation policy’s method
on this descriptor is no longer a visible member of this class. *Cause*:
The method selected as the instantiation method has either been removed,
or its visibility has been reduced so that it is no longer publicly
visible.

*Action*: Deselect this method as the instantiation method. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Locking_Policy[Configuring
Locking Policy].

312: The method you have specified for the instantiation policy’s
factory instantiation method on this descriptor is no longer a visible
member of this class. *Cause*: The method selected as the factory
instantiation method has either been removed, or its visibility reduced
so that it is no longer publicly visible.

*Action*: Deselect this method as the factory instantiation method. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Instantiation_Policy[Configuring
Instantiation Policy].

313: The method you have specified for the instantiation policy’s
factory method on this descriptor is no longer a visible member of this
class. *Cause*: The method selected as the factory method has either
been removed, or its visibility reduced so that it is no longer publicly
visible.

*Action*: Deselect this method as the factory method. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Instantiation_Policy[Configuring
Instantiation Policy].

314: "`Use factory`" is specified for the Instantiation policy, but all
required information is not specified. *Cause*: You selected the Use
Factory option on the descriptor’s Instantiation Policy tab, but did not
specify the Factory Class, Factory Method, or Instantiation Method
fields.

*Action*: Complete the Factory Class, Factory Method, or Instantiation
Method fields on the descriptor’s Instantiation tab. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Instantiation_Policy[Configuring
Instantiation Policy].

315: "`Use method`" is selected for the Instantiation policy, but no
method is selected. *Cause*: You selected the Use Method option on the
descriptor’s Instantiation Policy tab, but did not specify the field.

*Action*: Select the Method on the descriptor’s Instantiation tab. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Instantiation_Policy[Configuring
Instantiation Policy].

316: The class does not have an accessible zero argument constructor.
*Cause*: No accessible zero argument constructor exists for the class
associated with this descriptor.

*Action*: Make the zero argument constructor accessible if it exists, or
create a accessible zero argument constructor if it doesn’t exist.

317: No method was specified for the copying policy. *Cause*: You
specified that the descriptor should use a specific clone method for
copying, but you did not select a method.

*Action*: Complete the Use Clone Method field on the descriptor’s
Copying tab to select a method.

318: The method specified for the copy policy on this descriptor is no
longer a visible member of this class. *Cause*: You changed the class
hierarchy within the project, causing the copy policy to no longer be
visible to the class.

*Action*: Ensure that the copy policy is visible to the class.

319: Primary keys do not match across associated tables and no
reference(s) specified in multiple table policy information. *Cause*:
You attempted to associate multiple tables using a primary key.

*Action*: Primary key field names must match across associated tables,
or references must be defined from the base table to each derived table.

320: The multiple table reference should be defined from the base table
[table name] to the derived table. *Cause*: This descriptor has
Inheritance and Multitable advanced properties defined on it.

*Action*: The multiple table relationship that is defined between the
base class’ table and this derived class’ table must be defined from
base to derived.

321: The multiple table reference should not be defined on the database.
*Cause*: When using multitables with differently named primary keys, you
must set a reference from the TOP table to the BOTTOM table. This
reference must not be an actual constraint on the database.

*Action*: Select the table in which this is defined, and deselect the On
Database option.

322: A class containing the desired after loading method should be
specified. *Cause*: You added an after-load method to a descriptor, but
you did not specify a class.

*Action*: Complete the After Load tab. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Amendment_Methods[Configuring
Amendment Methods].

323: An after-load method must be specified. *Cause*: You added an
after-load method to a descriptor, but did not select an amendment
method.

*Action*: Complete the After Load tab. See
link:Configuring_a_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Amendment_Methods[Configuring
Amendment Methods].

324: An interface class must be specified for the interface alias.
*Cause*: You added an interface alias to a descriptor, but did not
select an amendment method.

*Action*: Complete the Interface Alias tab.

325: The inheritance hierarchy originating in this descriptor cannot
contain both aggregate and nonaggregate child descriptors. *Cause*:
Aggregate and class descriptors cannot be in the same inheritance
hierarchy.

*Action*: Ensure that the inheritance hierarchy contains either
aggregate or nonaggregate children, but not both.

326: The inheritance hierarchy originating in this descriptor cannot
contain both root and composite child descriptors. *Cause*: There is a
mixture of root and composite descriptors among the descendents of this
descriptor.

*Action*: Make all descendents of this descriptor the same type by
either making them all root, or making them all composite. You can do
this by removing the differing descriptor from the hierarchy, or
changing their type to be consistent with the other descriptors in the
hierarchy.

330: The returning policy insert fields do not exist on this
descriptor’s associated tables: [field name] *Cause*: The field you
selected on the descriptor’s Returning tab does not exist on the
database table associated with the descriptor.

*Action*: Select a different database table in the Insert area of the
descriptor’s Returning tab.

331: The returning policy update field [field name] does not exist on
this descriptor’s associated tables. *Cause*: The field you selected on
the descriptor’s Returning tab does not exist on the database table
associated with the descriptor.

*Action*: Select a different database table in the Update area of the
descriptor’s Returning tab.

350: Descriptors with Unknown Primary Keys must use sequencing. *Cause*:
Unknown Primary Key Class is selected for this descriptor, but the
descriptor does not use sequencing.

*Action*: Change the descriptor so that it uses sequencing, or so that
it no longer uses an unknown primary key class.

== Mapping Errors (400 – 483)

This section lists EclipseLink Workbench mapping errors.

400: Method accessors have not been selected. *Cause*: You selected Use
Method Accessing for a mapping, but you did not select a method.

*Action*: You must select a Get and Set method on the mapping’s General
tab. See
link:Configuring_a_Mapping_(ELUG)#Configuring_Method_or_Direct_Field_Accessing_at_the_Mapping_Level[Configuring
Method or Direct Field Accessing at the Mapping Level].

401, 402: The [get/set access method] method for this mapping’s method
accessing field is no longer visible to this descriptor. *Cause*: You
changed the class hierarchy within the project, causing the method
access type (`+get+` or `+set+`) to no longer be visible to the class.

*Action*: Ensure that the selected method is visible to the class.

403: Mappings for EJB 2.0 CMP descriptors that use Value Holder
Indirection must not use method accessing. *Cause*: You cannot use
method accessing on mappings for EJB 2.0 CMP descriptors that use
ValueHolder Indirection.

*Action*: Because EJB attributes are code-generated, reference mappings
should not be set to use method access. The attributes are
code-generated to be of type ValueHolder but the abstract methods are
defined to return the local interface type of the related bean.

404: Mapping references a write-lock field, but it is not read-only.
*Cause*: You specified a locking policy for a descriptor, but one of the
attribute mappings is not read-only.

*Action*: Select the Read Only option on the mapping’s General tab.

410: No direct field is specified. *Cause*: For direct collection
mappings, you must specify the direct collection information.

*Action*: Select a Target Table and Direct Field that the direct
collection specifies.

415: No direct key field is specified. *Cause*: For direct map mappings,
you must specify a direct key field in the reference table that stores
the primitive data value of the map key.

*Action*: On the direct map mapping’s General tab, select a Direct Key
Field. See
link:Configuring_a_Relational_Direct_Map_Mapping_(ELUG)#Configuring_Direct_Key_Field[Configuring
Direct Key Field].

420: No database field is selected. *Cause*: You created a
direct-to-field or type conversion mapping without selecting a database
field.

*Action*: For attributes with direct-to-field mappings, you must specify
a Database Field on the mapping’s General tab. For attributes with type
conversion mappings, you must specify a Database Field on the mapping’s
General tab.

421: The selected database field does not exist on this descriptor’s
associated tables. *Cause*: The database field mapped to an attribute is
not included in the table associated with the attribute’s descriptor.

*Action*: Ensure that the Database Field field on a mappings General tab
is included in the table that you associated with the attribute’s
descriptor. See
link:Configuring_a_Relational_Descriptor_(ELUG)#Configuring_Associated_Tables[Configuring
Associated Tables] and
link:Configuring_a_Relational_Mapping_(ELUG)#Configuring_a_Database_Field[Configuring
a Database Field].

430, 431: No null value type has been selected. *Cause*: You selected to
Use Default Value When Database Field is Null for a mapping, but did not
specify the value.

*Action*: Specify a default Type or Value, or both on the mapping’s
General tab. See
link:Configuring_a_Mapping_(ELUG)#Configuring_a_Default_Null_Value_at_the_Mapping_Level[Configuring
a Default Null Value at the Mapping Level]. This message may also appear
after using the Package Rename tool when upgrading an older EclipseLink
Workbench project.

440: XML type mappings are supported only on the Oracle9i Platform.
*Cause*: You created a Direct to XML Type mapping in relational project
that uses a non-Oracle9i database.

*Action*: Select an Oracle9i platform as the database platform for the
data source. See
link:Configuring_a_Relational_Project_(ELUG)#Configuring_Relational_Database_Platform_at_the_Project_Level[Configuring
Relational Database Platform at the Project Level].

450: No reference descriptor is selected. *Cause*: You created a
mapping, but did not specify the reference descriptor

*Action*: You must select a **Reference Descriptor**for each
relationship mapping on the mapping’s *General* tab.

451: [descriptor name]references [descriptor name], which is not active.
*Cause*: You tried to select an inactive descriptor as a Reference
Descriptor on the mapping’s General tab.

*Action*: You must either select a new Reference Descriptor, or make the
descriptor active.

460: No table reference is selected. *Cause*: You created a relationship
mapping, but did not specify a reference table.

*Action*: Select (or create) a table reference for each relationship
mapping on the mapping’s Table Reference tab.

461: Table reference is invalid. *Cause*: The table reference selected
for this mapping is invalid.

*Action*: Select a different table reference for this mapping.

462: The reference [table reference] does not have any field
associations. *Cause*: You selected a table reference for a mapping, but
did not add a key pair.

*Action*: You must specify source and target key pairs for the
reference.

463: A key pair has not been completely specified for a reference.
*Cause*: You created a table reference without a key pair.

*Action*: You must specify a foreign key reference for the database
table. Use the database table’s Reference tab to add a key pair.

464: No relationship partner is specified. *Cause*: You selected the
Maintains Bidirectional Relationship option for a relationship mapping,
but did not select a mapping to use as the relationship partner.

*Action*: Select a mapped attribute (from the reference descriptor) for
this relationship. See
link:Configuring_a_Mapping_(ELUG)#Configuring_Bidirectional_Relationship[Configuring
Bidirectional Relationship].

465: The relationship partner must be a one-to-one, one-to-many, or
many-to-many mapping. *Cause*: You selected an invalid attribute as the
Relationship Partner in a bidirectional relationship.

*Action*: In the Relationship Partner field, select a one-to-one,
one-to-many, or many-to-many mapping. See
link:Configuring_a_Mapping_(ELUG)#Configuring_Bidirectional_Relationship[Configuring
Bidirectional Relationship].

466: The specified relationship partner mapping does not specify this
mapping as its own relationship partner. *Cause*: Maintains
Bidirectional Relationship is selected for this mapping, but the mapping
selected as the relationship partner does not have this mapping selected
as its relationship partner.

*Action*: You must either select a different mapping for this mappings
relationship partner, which has this mapping selected as it
bidirectional relationship partner, or select this mapping as the
bidirectional relationship partner of the mapping selected as the
bidirectional relationship partner for this mapping.

467: The chosen reference descriptor is not a valid reference descriptor
for this mapping. *Cause*: The descriptor selected as the reference
descriptor for this mapping is not a valid reference descriptor.

*Action*: Select a valid reference descriptor for this mapping.

470: No container class is selected. *Cause*: No container class has
been selected for this collection mapping.

*Action*: Select a `+Container+` class for this `+Collection+` mapping.

471: The container policy uses a Collection class, but the container
class is not a Collection. *Cause*: The selected container class for
this collection mapping is not a Collection, but Use Collection Class is
selected.

*Action*: Select a `+Container+` class that is a `+Collection+` for this
mapping.

472: The container policy uses a Map class, but the container class is
not a Map. *Cause*: The selected `+Container+` class for this
`+Collection+` mapping is not a `+Map+` class, but Use Map Class is
selected.

*Action*: Select a `+Container+` class that is a `+Map+` class.

473: The container class must be instantiable. *Cause*: The selected
`+Container+` class for this `+Collection+` mapping is not
instantiatable.

*Action*: Select a `+Container+` class this is instantiatable, (not an
`+Interface+`, `+Abstract+` class, or `+Primitive+` class).

474: The container class does not agree with the instance variable.
*Cause*: The selected `+Container+` class for this `+Collection+`
mapping, does not agree with the instance variable that is associated
with the mapping. Either the variable is a `+Map+` class and the
selected `+Container+` class is a `+Collection+` or vice versa.

*Action*: You must either select a `+Container+` class that agrees with
the type of instance variable with which it is associated, or change the
instance variable to agree with the selected `+Container+` class.

475: The container class is a Map, but the key method is not selected.
*Cause*: Use Map Class is selected for the `+Container+` policy for this
`+Collection+` mapping, but a key method has not been selected.

*Action*: You must either select a key method for this `+Container+`
policy, or change the `+Container+` policy to not use a map class.

4 76: The key method specified for this mapping is no longer visible to
the owning descriptor’s class. *Cause*: The selected key method for the
`+Container+` policy for this `+Collection+` mapping policy is not
visible to the descriptor’s class.

*Action*: You must either select a different method that is visible to
the descriptor’s class, or change the selected method so that it is
visible.

477: The key method specified for this mapping is not valid. *Cause*:
The selected key method for the `+Container+` policy for this
`+Collection+` mapping is invalid because it does not have the correct
return type, or it does not accept more than zero parameters.

*Action*: You must either select a different method that is valid, or
change the selected method so that it will return the correct type and
accept more than zero parameters.

478: One-to-Many and Many-to-Many mappings in EJB 2.0 CMP descriptors
may not use ValueHolder indirection. *Cause*: A one-to-many or
many-to-many mapping in an EJB 2.0 CMP descriptor is using
`+ValueHolder+` indirection.

*Action*: You must either change the mapping to use no indirection or
non-`+ValueHolder+` indirection.

480: No relation table is selected. *Cause*: You created a many-to-many
mapping, but did not specify a relation table. The relation table
represents the relationship between the primary keys of the source table
and target table.

*Action*: Select or create a Relation Table on the mapping’s General
tab.

481: The relation table is not dedicated to single, writable
many-to-many mapping. *Cause*: More than one many-to-many mapping in the
project are using the same relation table.

*Action*: Each relation table should be used in one and only one
many-to-many mapping.

482: No source reference is selected. *Cause*: You created a
many-to-many mapping, but did not select (or create) a source table
reference on the mapping’s Source Reference tab.

*Action*: The source table reference must contain a Source field (from
the mapping’s relation table) and a Target field (from one of the
descriptor’s associated tables).

483: No target reference is selected. *Cause*: You created a
many-to-many mapping, but did not select (or create) a target table
reference on the mapping’s Source Reference tab.

*Action*: The target table reference must contain a Source field (from
the mapping’s relation table) and a Target field (from one of the
descriptor’s associated tables).

== Table Errors (500 – 610)

This section lists EclipseLink Workbench table errors.

500: You cannot use joining because the source and target (reference)
descriptors are the same type. *Cause*: You selected the Use Joining
option on a one-to-one mapping in which the source and reference
descriptors are the same.

*Action*: You must either deselect the Use Joining option or select a
difference Reference Descriptor on the One-to-One Mapping General tab.

510: No query key associations have been defined. *Cause*: You created a
variable one-to-one mapping, but did not define a key pair.

*Action*: Create or select a key pair on the mapping’s Query Key
Association tab.

511: Not all query key associations have foreign key fields specified.
*Cause*: You created a query key association without a foreign key.

*Action*: You must specify a foreign key field for each query key
association on the Query Key Association tab for variable one-to-one
mapping.

512: The following specified query key names are no longer valid: [query
key] *Cause*: The query keys listed for this mapping no longer refer to
the reference descriptor for this mapping. The query keys are now
invalid.

*Action*: You must either remove the invalid query keys, or change the
reference descriptor so that it corresponds with the query keys.

513: No indicator field is selected. *Cause*: You created a variable
one-to-one mapping, but did not specify a database field in which to
store indicator values.

*Action*: Select the Class Indicator Field on the Class Indicator Info
tab.

514: No indicator values are specified. *Cause*: You created a variable
one-to-one mapping, but did not specify indicator values for each object
type.

*Action*: Select the Indicator Type on the Class Indicator Info tab.

515: [descriptor name] is not an implementor of the [descriptor name]
interface, so it cannot have an indicator value. *Cause*: You included a
descriptor on the Variable One-to-One Class Indicator Info tab that is
an implementor.

*Action*: Deselect the descriptor on the Variable One-to-One Class
Indicator Info tab or add the descriptor to the Implementor tab.

516: The chosen reference descriptor is not an interface descriptor.
*Cause*: This variable one-to-one mapping has a reference descriptor
selected which is not an interface descriptor. The reference descriptor
for a variable one-to-one mapping must be an interface descriptor for
the mapping to be valid.

*Action*: You must either choose a reference descriptor that is an
interface descriptor, or change the mapping to no longer be variable.

520: No attribute transformer is specified. *Cause*: No attribute
transformer is specified for this transformation mapping.

*Action*: Select an attribute transformer for this transformation
mapping.

521: The attribute transformer class is missing. *Cause*: No class has
been specified for the attribute transformer for this transformation
mapping.

*Action*: Select a class for the attribute transformer.

522: The attribute transformer class [class name] is not a valid
transformer class. *Cause*: The attribute transformer class that is
selected is not a valid attribute transformer class.

*Action*: Select a valid attribute transformer class for the
transformation mapping.

523: The attribute transformer method is missing. *Cause*: No method has
been selected for the attribute transformer for the transformation
mapping.

*Action*: Select a method for the attribute transformer.

524: The attribute transformer method [method name] is not visible to
the parent descriptor’s class. *Cause*: The selected attribute
transformer method is not visible to the descriptor class for this
mapping.

*Action*: You must either select a different method that is visible, or
change the method in the class to make it visible.

525: The attribute transformer method [method name] is not a valid
transformer method. *Cause*: The selected attribute transformer method
either has the wrong return type or accepts the wrong parameters to be a
valid transformer method for this transformation mapping.

*Action*: You must either select a method with the correct return type
and parameters, or change the selected method so that it meets these
criteria.

526: No field transformer associations are specified. *Cause*: No field
transformer association has been specified for this transformation
mapping.

*Action*: Specify at least one field transformer association.

527: No transformer is specified for the field [field name]. *Cause*: No
transformer specified for the given field.

*Action*: Specify a transformer for this field.

528: There is a missing field in the field transformer association.
*Cause*: There is no field specified for a field transformer association
for this transformation mapping.

*Action*: Specify a field for all the field transformer associations for
this transformation mapping.

529: There is a missing transformer class for the field [field name].
*Cause*: The `+Transformer+` class is specified for this field
transformer association, but the `+Transformer+` class is unspecified.

*Action*: Specify a `+Transformer+` class for the field transformer
association for this field.

530: The transformer class [class name] for the field [field name] is
not a valid transformer class. *Cause*: The specified `+Transformer+`
class for the field of this field transformer association is invalid.

*Action*: Specify a valid `+Transformer+` class for the field
transformer association for this transformation mapping.

531: There is a missing transformer method for the field [field name].
*Cause*: A transformer method is specified for this field transformer
association, but the transformer method is unspecified.

*Action*: Specify a transformer method for the field transformer
association for this field.

532: The transformer method [method name] for the field [field name] is
not visible to the parent descriptor’s class. *Cause*: The specified
transformer method for the field transformer association for this field
is not visible to the descriptor or the class of this mapping.

*Action*: You must either choose a method that is visible to the class,
or change the method so that it is visible.

533: The field transformer method [method name] for the field [field
name] is not a valid transformer method. *Cause*: The specified method
for the field transformer association for this field either has the
incorrect return type, or accepts the wrong parameters.

*Action*: You must either select a method that has the correct return
type and parameters, or change the currently selected method so that is
has the correct return type and parameters.

540: No object type is selected. *Cause*: You created an object type
mapping, but did not select the type.

*Action*: You must select the Object Type and Database Type on the
General tab of the mapping.

542: No object-type mappings have been specified. *Cause*: You created
an object type mapping, but did not create n object-to-database mapping.

*Action*: You must specify at least one mapping (Database Value and
Object Value) on the General tab of the mapping.

545: NCharacter, NString, and NClob database types are currently
supported only on the Oracle9i platform. *Cause*: You attempted to map a
database type that is not supported by your database.

*Action*: The database type for a type conversion mapping or
direct-to-field mapping can be `+NCharacter+`, `+NString+`, or `+NCLOB+`
only if you are using an Oracle9i database.

550: Attribute is typed as a ValueHolderInterface, but the mapping does
not use Value Holder Indirection. *Cause*: You did not specify
indirection or transparent indirection for the mapping.

*Action*: If the class attribute is of type `+ValueHolderInterface+`,
you must use `+ValueHolder+` indirection for the mapping.

551: Mapping uses ValueHolder Indirection, but its associated attribute
is not a ValueHolderInterface. *Cause*: You selected indirection without
a `+ValueHolderInterface+`.

*Action*: If you select the Use Indirection (ValueHolder) option for a
one-to-many, many-to-many, or direct collection mapping, the associated
class attribute must be `+ValueHolderInterface+`.

560: The container class for this mapping must implement
org.eclipse.persistence.indirection.IndirectContainer. *Cause*: This
mapping uses transparent indirection, but the `+Container+` class
selected for its container policy is not an `+IndirectContainer+`.

*Action*: You must either select a `+Container+` class that is an
`+IndirectContainer+`, or remove transparent indirection from the
mapping.

570: The chosen reference descriptor is not an aggregate descriptor.
*Cause*: This is an aggregate mapping, but the selected reference
descriptor is not an aggregate descriptor.

*Action*: You must either select a reference descriptor for this mapping
that is an aggregate descriptor, or change this mapping to no longer be
an aggregate mapping.

571: Aggregate fields are not specified. *Cause*: You created an
aggregate mapping without specifying specific fields.

*Action*: Every Field Description on the Fields tab must contain a
unique Field for aggregate mappings.

572: Aggregate mapping fields must be unique. *Cause*: You created an
aggregate mapping without specifying unique fields.

*Action*: Every Field Description on the Fields tab must contain a
unique Field for aggregate mappings.

573: The selected field does not exist on this descriptor’s associated
tables. *Cause*: The field selected for one of the
aggregate-path-to-fields for this aggregate mapping does not exist on
any of the descriptor’s associated tables.

*Action*: You must either select a different field for the
path-to-field, or add the field to the appropriate table.

580: No XML field specified. *Cause*: You mapped an attribute in an XML
or EIS descriptor, but did not select an XML field.

*Action*: You must complete the XML Field field on the General tab of
the mapping.

581: The specified XPath is not valid within the current schema.
*Cause*: The XPath specified for this mapping does not resolve in the
schema.

*Action*: You must either select a different XPath, or alter the schema
so that this XPath will resolve.

582: The specified XPath does not represent text data. *Cause*: The
XPath specified for this direct mapping does not resolve to a direct
field in the schema.

*Action*: You must either select a different XPath, alter the schema so
that this XPath will resolve to a direct field, or change the mapping
type.

583: The specified XPath does not represent a single xml field. *Cause*:
The XPath specified for this mapping resolves to a field which is a
collection, but this is not a collection mapping.

*Action*: You must either select a different XPath, alter the schema so
that this XPath will resolve to a singular field, or change the mapping
type.

590: The chosen reference descriptor is not a root eis descriptor.
*Cause*: The reference descriptor selected for this EIS reference
mapping is not a root descriptor. Reference mappings in EIS descriptors
must be root descriptors.

*Action*: You must either select a different reference descriptor for
this mapping which is a `+root+` descriptor, or change the mapping type.

591: No relationship partner is specified. *Cause*: This mapping has
Maintains Bidirectional Relationship selected, but no relationship
partner is specified.

*Action*: You must either deselect Maintains Bidirectional Relationship,
or select a relationship partner.

592: The relationship partner must be an EIS One-to-One or EIS
One-to-Many mapping. *Cause*: The relationship partner selected for this
mapping is not of the type `+EIS+` one-to-one or EIS one-to-many.

*Action*: You must select an `+EIS+` one-to-one or EIS one-to-many
mapping as the relationship partner for this mapping, or deselect
Maintains Bidirectional Relationship.

593: The specified relationship partner mapping does not specify this
mapping as its own relationship partner. *Cause*: The mapping selected
as the relationship partner for this mapping does not have this mapping
selected as its relationship partner. For these relationships to be
bidirectional, you must select the relationship partner for both
mappings.

*Action*: You must either go to the mapping selected as the relationship
partner for this mapping and select this mapping as its relationship
partner, or select a different relationship partner mapping for this
mapping to maintain this mapping as its relationship partner.

594: There is a missing source XML field. *Cause*: No field has been
specified as the source XML field for this mapping.

*Action*: You must specify a source XML field.

595: There is a missing target XML field. *Cause*: No field has been
specified as the target XML field for this mapping.

*Action*: You must specify a target XML field.

600: A foreign key grouping element is required if there are multiple
field pairs. *Cause*: No foreign key grouping element is specified for
this mapping and multiple field pairs.

*Action*: You must specify a foreign key grouping element.

601: The foreign key grouping element does not contain all foreign keys
fields. *Cause*: The specified foreign key grouping element does not
contain all the foreign key fields.

*Action*: You must either remove the foreign key fields not contained in
this foreign key grouping element, or pick a foreign key grouping
element that contains all the foreign key fields.

602: A delete all interaction is specified, but the mapping is not
private owned. *Cause*: A `+deleteall+` interaction is specified for
this mapping, but the mapping is not private owned.

*Action*: You must either make the mapping private owned, or remove the
`+deleteall+` interaction.

610: At least one field pair must be specified, unless the mapping has
no selection interaction and is read-only. *Cause*: No field pairs are
specified, and this mapping has a `+selection+` interaction specified
and/or is not read-only.

*Action*: You must either specify a field pair for the mapping, or make
the mapping read-only and remove the `+selection+` interaction.

== XML Schema Errors (700 – 706)

This section lists EclipseLink Workbench XML schema errors.

701: A database table can only have one IDENTITY column defined.
*Cause*: You defined more than one identity column for this table.

*Action*: On the database table’s Columns tab, leave only one identity
(Identity) column. See
link:Using_Workbench_(ELUG)#Working_with_Column_Properties[Working with
Column Properties].

702: A size is required for the column [column]. *Cause*: You did not
specify any size for this column. The default size is 0.

*Action*: On the database table’s Columns tab, specify the size (Size)
for the column (field). See
link:Using_Workbench_(ELUG)#Working_with_Column_Properties[Working with
Column Properties].

703: The reference [table reference] does not have any field pairs.
*Cause*: You added a reference for a table, but the reference does not
include a key pair.

*Action*: On the database table’s References tab, specify source and
target field pairs for the table reference. See
link:Using_Workbench_(ELUG)#Creating_Table_References[Creating Table
References].

704: A key pair has not been completely specified for a reference.
*Cause*: A reference table is missing a complete key pair (source and
target fields).

*Action*: You must specify a foreign key reference for the database
table. On the database table’s References tab, add a complete key pair.
link:Using_Workbench_(ELUG)#Creating_Table_References[Creating Table
References].

705: A development login has not been specified. *Cause*: You created a
relational EclipseLink Workbench project, but did not specify a
development login.

*Action*: On the Database property sheet, select a Development Login
from the available defined logins, or add a new login. See
link:Configuring_a_Relational_Project_(ELUG)#Configuring_Development_and_Deployment_Logins[Configuring
Development and Deployment Logins].

706: A deployment login has not been specified. *Cause*: You created a
relational EclipseLink Workbench project, but did not specify a
deployment login.

*Action*: On the Database property sheet, select a Deployment Login from
the available defined logins, or add a new login. See
link:Configuring_a_Relational_Project_(ELUG)#Configuring_Development_and_Deployment_Logins[Configuring
Development and Deployment Logins].

== Session Errors (800 – 812)

This section lists the EclipseLink Workbench sessions XML errors.

801: [session name] Login - The connection URL has to be specified.
*Cause*: You have not specified a connection URL for the session (when
using a database driver manager). Each session must have at least one
login connection.

*Action*: On the session’s Login – Connection tab, complete the Driver
URL field. See
link:Configuring_a_Session_(ELUG)#Configuring_a_Session_Login[Configuring
a Session Login].

802: [session name] Login - The driver class has to be specified.
*Cause*: You have not specified a driver class for the session (when
using a data source database driver).

*Action*: On the session’s Login – Connection tab, complete the Driver
Class field. See
link:Configuring_a_Session_(ELUG)#Configuring_a_Session_Login[Configuring
a Session Login].

803: [session or connection pool name]Login - Login - The data source
name has to be specified. *Cause*: You have not specified a driver class
for the session login (when using a Java EE data source database
driver).

*Action*: On the session’s or connection pool’s Login – Connection tab,
complete the Data Source field. See
link:Configuring_a_Session_(ELUG)#Configuring_a_Session_Login[Configuring
a Session Login].

804: Login - Session Broker - It has to have at least one session,
either a server or a database session. *Cause*: You created a session
broker but did not add any sessions. Each session broker must contain a
session.

*Action*: On the session broker’s General – Sessions tab, select a
session to add to this broker. See
link:Configuring_Session_Broker_and_Client_Sessions_(ELUG)#Configuring_Session_Broker_and_Client_Sessions[Configuring
Session Broker and Client Sessions].

805: [session name] Database Session - It has to have at least one XML
file or a class specified. *Cause*: Your database session does not have
a primary project (an associated deployment XML file or Java class
file).

*Action*: On the session’s Project – General tab, complete the Primary
Project field. See
link:Configuring_a_Session_(ELUG)#Configuring_a_Primary_Mapping_Project[Configuring
a Primary Mapping Project].

806: Login - The transport class has to be specified. *Cause*: You
selected a custom (user-defined) cache coordination type, but did not
specify the transport class for cache coordination.

*Action*: On the session’s Cache Coordination tab, complete the
Transport Class field, or select a different cache coordination type.
See
link:Configuring_a_Coordinated_Cache_(ELUG)#Configuring_a_Coordinated_Cache[Configuring
a Coordinated Cache].

807: [session name] Login - The location of the log file has to be
specified. *Cause*: You are using standard logging and selected to have
the log saved to a file, but did not select a file name and location.

*Action*: On the session’s Logging tab, complete the Log Location field.
See link:Configuring_a_Session_(ELUG)#Configuring_Logging[Configuring
Logging].

811: [session or broker name] - An external transaction controller (JTA)
has to be specified. *Cause*: You selected a custom server platform, but
did not specify the JTA for the platform.

*Action*: On the session or session broker’s General – Server Platform
tab, complete the External Transaction Controller (JTA) field. See
link:Configuring_a_Session_(ELUG)#Configuring_the_Server_Platform[Configuring
the Server Platform].

812: [session or broker name] - A server class has to be specified.
*Cause*: You selected a custom server platform, but did not specify the
server class for the platform.

*Action*: On the session or session broker’s General – Server Platform
tab, complete the Server Class field. See
link:Configuring_a_Session_(ELUG)#Configuring_the_Server_Platform[Configuring
the Server Platform].

== Common Classpath Problems

The following are some common EclipseLink Workbench error messages that
may result from invalid classpath information. See
link:Configuring_a_Project_(ELUG)#Configuring_Project_Classpath[Configuring
Project Classpath] for more information.

The EclipseLink Workbench does not display the class(es) to import.
*Cause*: Your classes are not available for import on the Select Classes
dialog box.

*Action*: Ensure that the class is in your project’s classpath (on the
project’s General properties tab). Ensure that the class is in the
`+.zip+` or `+.jar+` file. You cannot import compressed classes.

The EclipseLink Workbench generates an exception error when importing
classes. *Cause*: EclipseLink class import utility did not start
correctly. One of the classes includes a static initialization method,
which may cause the import utility to fail.

*Action*: Ensure that your project’s classpath points to the root
directory of your package hierarchy. For example, to import the
`+com.company.class+` package in the `+C:\classes\com\company+`
directory, your project classpath should be `+C:\classes\+`.

The EclipseLink Workbench fails to import the class, but does not
generate an exception error. *Cause*: The classpath containing your JDBC
drivers should still be on your system CLASSPATH. EclipseLink Workbench
classpath is for domain classes only.

*Action*: Ensure that you have properly indicated the directories that
contain your domain class(es) to map on the project’s General tab.

== Database Connection Problems

This section describes common errors and problems you may encounter when
communicating with or logging in to the database.

The class [class] was not found. *Cause*: You attempted to log in to the
database, but EclipseLink could not find the JDBC driver for the
database.

*Action*: Ensure that the `+JDBC_CLASSPATH+` in the `+setenv.cmd+` file
points to your JDBC driver JAR files. Verify that your PATH includes all
files (for example, native `+.dll+` files) required by the driver. If
the path to your JDBC driver JAR files contains spaces, then the path
must be enclosed in double-quotes in the `+setenv.cmd+` file. For
example:

`+set JDBC_CLASSPATH="C:\Program Files\some directory\driver.jar\"+`

For more information, see
link:Using_Workbench_(ELUG)#Configuring_the_EclipseLink_Workbench_Environment[Configuring
the EclipseLink Workbench Environment].

Username or password could be invalid. *Cause*: EclipseLink was unable
to log in to the database.

*Action*: Ensure that the Username and Password for the database are
correct.Verify with your DBA that the database is set up and operating
correctly.

You must define a development login. *Cause*: You attempted to log in to
the database from EclipseLink Workbench, but you did not define a
development login.

*Action*: On the database property sheet, select a Development Login, or
create a new Defined Login. See
link:Configuring_a_Relational_Project_(ELUG)#Configuring_Login_Information_at_the_Project_Level[Configuring
Login Information at the Project Level].

No database driver has been specified. *Cause*: You attempted to log in
to the database from EclipseLink Workbench, but you did not complete the
login information.

*Action*: Complete all the required fields on the database property
sheet for the selected development login. See
link:Configuring_a_Relational_Project_(ELUG)#Configuring_Login_Information_at_the_Project_Level[Configuring
Login Information at the Project Level].

Invalid URL specified. *Cause*: You attempted to log in to the database
from EclipseLink Workbench, but the URL is incorrect.

*Action*: Complete the URL field on the database property sheet for the
selected development login. See
link:Configuring_a_Relational_Project_(ELUG)#Configuring_Login_Information_at_the_Project_Level[Configuring
Login Information at the Project Level].

'''''

_link:EclipseLink_User's_Guide_Copyright_Statement[Copyright Statement]_

Category:_EclipseLink_User's_Guide[Category: EclipseLink User’s Guide]
Category:_Release_1[Category: Release 1]
