*TOC*
Special:Whatlinkshere_Introduction_to_Object-Relational_Data_Type_Mappings_(ELUG)[Related
Topics]

An object-relational data type mapping transforms certain object data
member types to structured data source representations optimized for
storage in specialized object-relational data type databases (such as
Oracle Database). Object-relational data type mappings let you map an
object model into an object-relational data type data model.

Do not confuse object-relational data type mappings with relational
mappings (see
link:Introduction%20to%20Relational%20Mappings%20(ELUG)#Transformation_Mapping[Transformation
Mapping]). A relational mapping transforms any object data member type
to a corresponding relational database (SQL) data source representation
in any supported relational database. Relational mappings let you map an
object model into a relational data model. In general, you can use
relational mappings with any supported relational database. You can only
use object-relational data type mappings with specialized
object-relational data type databases optimized to support
object-relational data type data source representations.

For information on mapping concepts and features common to more than one
type of EclipseLink mappings, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Mappings%20(ELUG)[Introduction to Mappings].

EclipseLink supports the following object-relational data type mappings.
These mappings allow for an object model to persist in an
object-relational data type data model. The Workbench does not support
object-relational data type mappings–they must be defined in code or
through amendment methods.

[#Table 45-1]##

[width="100%",cols="<34%,<43%,<12%,<11%",options="header",]
|===
|*Type of Mapping* |*Description* |*EclipseLink Workbench* |*Java*
|link:#Object-Relational_Data_Type_Structure_Mapping[Object-relational
data type structure mapping] |Map to object-relational data type
aggregate structures (the `+Struct+` type in JDBC and the `+OBJECT+`
type in Oracle Database__i__)
|image:unsupport.gif[Unsupported,title="Unsupported"]
|image:support.gif[Supported,title="Supported"]

|link:#Object-Relational_Data_Type_Reference_Mapping[Object-relational
data type reference mapping] |Map to object-relational data type
references (the `+Ref+` type in JDBC and the `+REF+` type in Oracle
Database) |image:unsupport.gif[Unsupported,title="Unsupported"]
|image:support.gif[Supported,title="Supported"]

|link:#Object-Relational_Data_Type_Array_Mapping[Object-relational data
type array mapping] |Map a collection of primitive data to
object-relational data type array data types (the `+Array+` type in JDBC
and the `+VARRAY+` type in Oracle Database).
|image:unsupport.gif[Unsupported,title="Unsupported"]
|image:support.gif[Supported,title="Supported"]

|link:#Object-Relational_Data_Type_Object_Array_Mapping[Object-relational
data type object array mapping] |Map to object-relational data type
array data types (the `+Array+` type in JDBC and the `+VARRAY+` type in
Oracle Database). |image:unsupport.gif[Unsupported,title="Unsupported"]
|image:support.gif[Supported,title="Supported"]

|link:#Object-Relational_Data_Type_Nested_Table_Mapping[Object-relational
data type nested table mapping] |Map to object-relational data type
nested tables (the `+Array+` type in JDBC and the `+NESTED+` `+TABLE+`
type in Oracle Database)
|image:unsupport.gif[Unsupported,title="Unsupported"]
|image:support.gif[Supported,title="Supported"]
|===

== Object-Relational Data Type Structure Mapping

In an object-relational data type data model, *structures* are
user-defined data types or object types. This is similar to a Java
class–it defines attributes or fields in which each attribute is one of
the following:

* A primitive data type.
* Another structure.
* Reference to another structure.

EclipseLink maps nested structures with the `+StructureMapping+` class.
The structure mapping supports null values and shared aggregates without
requiring additional settings (because of the object-relational data
type support of the database).

See
link:Configuring%20an%20Object-Relational%20Data%20Type%20Structure%20Mapping%20(ELUG)[Configuring
an Object-Relational Data Type Structure Mapping] for more information.

== Object-Relational Data Type Reference Mapping

In an object-relational data type data model, structures reference each
other through *refs*–not through foreign keys (as in a traditional data
model). Refs are based on the target structure’s `+ObjectID+`. They
represent an object reference in Java.

EclipseLink maps refs with the `+ReferenceMapping+` class. The reference
mapping does not require foreign key information (because of the
object-relational data type support of the database).

See
link:Configuring%20an%20Object-Relational%20Data%20Type%20Reference%20Mapping%20(ELUG)[Configuring
an Object-Relational Data Type Reference Mapping] for more information.

== Object-Relational Data Type Array Mapping

In an object-relational data type data model, structures can contain
*arrays* (collections of other data types). These arrays can contain
primitive data types or collections of other structures.

EclipseLink maps arrays of primitive data types with the
`+ArrayMapping+` class. An array mapping maps to object-relational data
type array data types (the `+Array+` type in JDBC and the `+VARRAY+`
type in Oracle Database). To map a collection of aggregate structures,
use an object array mapping (see
link:#Object-Relational_Data_Type_Object_Array_Mapping[Object-Relational
Data Type Object Array Mapping]).

The object-relational data type database stores the arrays with their
parent structure in the same table. To store information in a separate
table from the parent structure’s table, use a nested table mapping (see
link:#Object-Relational_Data_Type_Nested_Table_Mapping[Object-Relational
Data Type Nested Table Mapping]).

All elements in the array must be the same data type. The number of
elements in an array controls the size of the array. An Oracle Database
allows arrays of variable sizes (the `+VARRAY+` type).

See
link:Configuring%20an%20Object-Relational%20Data%20Type%20Array%20Mapping%20(ELUG)[Configuring
an Object-Relational Data Type Array Mapping] for more information.

== Object-Relational Data Type Object Array Mapping

In an object-relational data type data model, structures can contain
_arrays_ (collections of other data types). These arrays can contain
primitive data types or collections of other structures.

EclipseLink maps arrays of structures with the `+ObjectArrayMapping+`
class. An object array mapping defines a collection-aggregated
relationship, in which the target objects share the same row as the
source object.

You must associate this mapping to an attribute in the parent class.

See
link:Configuring%20an%20Object-Relational%20Data%20Type%20Object%20Array%20Mapping%20(ELUG)[Configuring
an Object-Relational Data Type Object Array Mapping] for more
information.

== Object-Relational Data Type Nested Table Mapping

*Nested table* types model an unordered set of elements. These elements
may be built-in or user-defined types. You can view a nested table as a
single-column table or, if the nested table is an object type, as a
multicolumn table (with a column for each attribute of the object type).

EclipseLink maps nested tables with the `+NestedTableMapping+` class. It
represents a collection of object references in Java. Because of the
object-relational data type support of the database, nested table
mapping does not require foreign key information (as with a one-to-many
mapping) or a relational table (as with a many-to-many mapping).

Typically, nested tables represent a one-to-many or many-to-many
relationship of references to another independent structure. They
support querying and joining better than the `+VARRAY+` types that are
in-lined to the parent table. EclipseLink supports mapping a nested
table of `+REF+` types only. EclipseLink does not support nested tables
of basic or other structured data types–use array (see
link:#Object-Relational_Data_Type_Array_Mapping[Object-Relational Data
Type Array Mapping]) or object array (see
link:#Object-Relational_Data_Type_Object_Array_Mapping[Object-Relational
Data Type Object Array Mapping]) mappings instead.

See
link:Configuring%20an%20Object-Relational%20Data%20Type%20Nested%20Table%20Mapping%20(ELUG)[Configuring
an Object-Relational Data Type Nested Table Mapping] for more
information.

'''''

_link:EclipseLink_User's_Guide_Copyright_Statement[Copyright Statement]_

Category:_EclipseLink_User's_Guide[Category: EclipseLink User’s Guide]
Category:_Release_1[Category: Release 1] Category:_Concept[Category:
Concept] Category:_ORM[Category: ORM]
