image:Elug_draft_icon.png[Image:Elug draft
icon.png,title="Image:Elug draft icon.png"] *For the latest EclipseLink
documentation, please see
http://www.eclipse.org/eclipselink/documentation/*

'''''

*TOC*
Special:Whatlinkshere_Introduction_to_EclipseLink_Development_Tools_(ELUG)[Related
Topics]

The EclipseLink runtime provides Java or Java EE applications with
access to persistent entities stored in a data source. In addition to
run-time capabilities, the EclipseLink Foundation Library includes the
EclipseLink Application Programming Interface (API). This API enables
applications to access EclipseLink run-time features.

EclipseLink includes additional development tools that simplify
application development. These tools capture mapping and run-time
configuration information in metadata files that EclipseLink passes to
the application at run time.

The EclipseLink Workbench development tool is primarily for developing
when using the native EclipseLink API, MOXy, or EIS. When using JPA,
other development tools such as Eclipse Dali, or Oracle JDeveloper can
be used.

EclipseLink metadata is the link between the two (see
link:Introduction_to_EclipseLink_Application_Development_(ELUG)#Working_with_EclipseLink_Metadata[Working
with EclipseLink Metadata]).

The following figure illustrates how these elements interact with the
data source.

[#Figure 3-1]## *_EclipseLink Components in Development Lifecycle_*

.EclipseLink Components in Development Lifecycle
image::under01.gif[EclipseLink Components in Development
Lifecycle,title="EclipseLink Components in Development Lifecycle"]

== Development Environment

To create an EclipseLink application, use the Workbench to map objects
to data sources using relational and nonrelational models. Capture the
resulting mappings and additional run-time configurations in the
EclipseLink project file (`+project.xml+`) and build a session
configuration file (`+sessions.xml+`). These files together represent
your entire EclipseLink project, as shown in the
link:#Figure_3-2[following figure].

During development, you can use the EclipseLink API to define query and
transaction logic. When you use entity beans, there is generally little
or no direct use of the EclipseLink API and there is no session or
`+sessions.xml+` file.

[#Figure 3-2 ]## *_Workbench in Development Environment_*

.Workbench in Development Environment
image::under03.gif[Workbench in Development
Environment,title="Workbench in Development Environment"]

Workbench can import compiled entity classes (Java objects or EJB entity
beans), as well as relational or nonrelational schemas through a JDBC
driver (configured by you). Because EclipseLink imports the object and
relational models for mapping, you can develop the two models relatively
independently from the mapping phase of a project development.

== EclipseLink Run-Time Environment

The EclipseLink Foundation Library provides the EclipseLink run-time
component. Access the run-time component either directly through the
EclipseLink API or indirectly through a Java EE container when using
entity beans with container-managed persistence. The run-time
environment is not a separate or external process–it is embedded within
the application. Application calls invoke EclipseLink to provide
persistence behavior. This function allows for transactional and
thread-safe access to shared database connections and cached objects.

In addition to Java EE environments, EclipseLink fully supports non-Java
EE environments as well. See
link:Introduction_to_EclipseLink_Application_Development_(ELUG)#Selecting_an_Architecture_with_EclipseLink[Selecting
an Architecture with EclipseLink] for more information.

'''''

_link:EclipseLink_User's_Guide_Copyright_Statement[Copyright Statement]_

Category:_EclipseLink_User's_Guide[Category: EclipseLink User’s Guide]
Category:_Release_1[Category: Release 1] Category:_Concept[Category:
Concept]
