image:Elug_draft_icon.png[Image:Elug draft
icon.png,title="Image:Elug draft icon.png"] *For the latest EclipseLink
documentation, please see
http://www.eclipse.org/eclipselink/documentation/*

'''''

*TOC* Special:Whatlinkshere_Introduction_to_EIS_Projects_(ELUG)[Related
Topics]

This section provides an overview of EIS projects and their components.

For information on project concepts and features common to more than one
type of EclipseLink projects, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Projects_(ELUG)[Introduction to Projects].

== EIS Project Concepts

Use an EIS project for transactional persistence of Java objects to a
_nonrelational_ data source accessed using a Java EE Connector
Architecture (JCA) adapter and EIS records.

JCA provides a Common Client Interface (CCI) API to access nonrelational
EIS. This provides a similar interface to nonrelational data sources as
JDBC provides for relational data sources. This API defines several
types of nonrelational record types including mapped and indexed. XML
has emerged as the standard format to exchange data, and most leading
JCA adapter providers have extended the CCI API to define XML data
records.

To use a JCA adapter with EclipseLink EIS, the JCA adapter must support
the JCA CCI interface. At run time, your JCA adapter and the Java
`+connector.jar+` file (that contains the `+javax.resource.cci+` and
`+javax.resource.spi+` interfaces that EclipseLink EIS uses) must be on
your application or application server classpath.

If you are using Workbench, you must add your JCA adapter to the
Workbench classpath. By default, Workbench updates its classpath to
include the Java 1.5._n_ `+connector.jar+` file from
`+<+`_`+ECLIPSELINK_HOME+`_`+>/utils/workbench/jlib+`. If this version
of the `+connector.jar+` file is incompatible with your environment,
edit the `+workbench.cmd+` or `+workbench.sh+` file in
`+<+`_`+ECLIPSELINK_HOME+`_`+>/utils/workbench/bin+` to change the path
to this file. For more information, see
link:Using%20Workbench%20(ELUG)#Configuring_the_Workbench_Environment[Configuring
the Workbench Environment].

EIS includes legacy data sources, enterprise applications, legacy
applications, and other information systems. These systems include such
sources as Custormer Information Control System (CICS), Virtual Storage
Access Method (VSAM), Information Management System (IMS), ADABASE
database, and flat files.

We recommend using EIS projects to integrate EclipseLink with a legacy
or nonrelational data source. Other methods of accessing EIS data
sources include:

* Using a specialized JDBC driver that allows connecting to an EIS
system as if it were a relational database. You could use an
link:Introduction%20to%20Relational%20Projects%20(ELUG)[EclipseLink
relational project] with these drivers.
* Linking to or integrating with the EIS data from a relational
database, such as Oracle Database.
* Using a proprietary API to access the EIS system. In this case it may
be possible to wrap the API with a JCA CCI interface to allow usage with
an EclipseLink EIS project.

EclipseLink provides support for mapping Java objects to EIS mapped,
indexed, and XML records, through JCA, using the
link:EIS_Mappings_(ELUG)[EclipseLink EIS mappings].

You configure an EclipseLink EIS descriptor to use a
link:Configuring%20an%20EIS%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Record_Format[particular
EIS record format]. EclipseLink EIS mappings use their EIS descriptor’s
record format configuration to determine how to map their Java objects
to EIS records.

If you use XML records, the EclipseLink runtime performs XML data
conversion based on one or more XML schemas. In an EIS project that uses
XML records, Workbench directly references schemas in the deployment
XML, and exports mappings configured with respect to the schemas you
specify. For information on how to use Workbench with XML schemas, see
link:Using%20Workbench%20(ELUG)#Using_XML_Schemas[Using XML Schemas].
For information on how EclipseLink supports XML namespaces, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Projects_(ELUG)#XML_Namespaces_Overview[XML
Namespaces Overview].

This table describes the components of an EIS project.

[#Table 67-1]## *_EIS Project Components_*

[width="100%",cols="<9%,<91%",options="header",]
|===
|*Component* |*Supported Types*
|Data Source
|link:Introduction%20to%20Data%20Access%20(ELUG)#EISLogin[EISLogin] and
link:Introduction%20to%20Data%20Access%20(ELUG)#EIS_Platforms[EIS
Platforms]

|Descriptors
|link:Introduction%20to%20EIS%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)#EIS_Descriptor_Concepts[EIS
Descriptor Concepts]

|Mappings |link:EIS_Mappings_(ELUG)[EIS Mappings]
|===

You can create an EIS project with Workbench for use with
link:Creating%20an%20EIS%20Project%20(ELUG)#Creating_an_EIS_Project_with_XML_Records[EIS
XML records] or you can build an EIS project in Java for use with
link:Creating%20an%20EIS%20Project%20(ELUG)#Creating_an_EIS_Project_with_Indexed_or_Mapped_Records[any
supported EIS record type].

In an EIS project, your
link:Introduction%20to%20EclipseLink%20Queries%20(ELUG)#Enterprise_Information_System_(EIS)_Interactions[EIS
interactions] can make full use of
link:Introduction%20to%20EclipseLink%20Queries%20(ELUG)[EclipseLink
queries]. However, you cannot use EclipseLink expressions with EIS: in
an EIS project, interactions replace expressions.

'''''

_link:EclipseLink_User's_Guide_Copyright_Statement[Copyright Statement]_

Category:_EclipseLink_User's_Guide[Category: EclipseLink User’s Guide]
Category:_Release_1[Category: Release 1] Category:_Concept[Category:
Concept] Category:_EIS[Category: EIS]
