*TOC*
Special:Whatlinkshere_Introduction_to_Relational_Mappings_(ELUG)[Related
Topics]

A relational mapping transforms any object data member type to a
corresponding relational database (SQL) data source representation in
any supported relational database. Relational mappings let you map an
object model into a relational data model.

Relational mappings transform object data members to relational database
fields. Use them to map simple data types including primitives (such as
`+int+`), JDK classes (such as `+String+`), and large object (LOB)
values. You can also use them to transform object data members that
reference other domain objects by way of association where data source
representations require object identity maintenance (such as sequencing
and back references) and possess various types of multiplicity and
navigability. The appropriate mapping class is chosen primarily by the
cardinality of the relationship.

Do not confuse relational mappings with object-relational data type
mappings (see
link:Introduction%20to%20Object-Relational%20Data%20Type%20Mappings%20(ELUG)[Introduction
to Object-Relational Data Type Mappings]). An object-relational data
type mapping transforms certain object data member types to structured
data source representations optimized for storage in specialized
object-relational data type databases such as Oracle9__i__ Database
Server. Object-relational data type mappings let you map an object model
into an object-relational data type data model. In general, you can use
relational mappings with any supported relational database. You can only
use object-relational data type mappings with specialized
object-relational data type databases optimized to support
object-relational data type data source representations.

For information on mapping concepts and features common to more than one
type of EclipseLink mappings, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Mappings%20(ELUG)[Introduction to Mappings].

== Relational Mapping Types

EclipseLink supports the relational mappings listed in the following
table.

[#Table 32-1]##

[width="100%",cols="<24%,<42%,<17%,<17%",options="header",]
|===
|*Type of Mapping* |*Description* |*EclipseLink Workbench* |*Java*
|link:#Direct-to-Field_Mapping[Direct-to-field] |Map a Java attribute
directly to a database field.
|image:support.gif[Supported,title="Supported"]
|image:support.gif[Supported,title="Supported"]

|link:#Direct-to-XMLType_Mapping[Direct-to-XMLType] |Map Java attributes
to an `+XMLType+` column in an Oracle Database (introduced in version
9.2.0.1). |image:support.gif[Supported,title="Supported"]
|image:support.gif[Supported,title="Supported"]

|link:#One-to-One_Mapping[One-to-one] |Map a reference to another
persistent Java object to the database.
|image:support.gif[Supported,title="Supported"]
|image:support.gif[Supported,title="Supported"]

|link:#One-to-One_Mapping[Variable one-to-one] |Map a reference to an
interface to the database.
|image:support.gif[Supported,title="Supported"]
|image:support.gif[Supported,title="Supported"]

|link:#One-to-Many_Mapping[One-to-many] |Map Java collections of
persistent objects to the database.
|image:support.gif[Supported,title="Supported"]
|image:support.gif[Supported,title="Supported"]

|link:#Many-to-Many_Mapping[Many-to-many] |Use an association table to
map Java collections of persistent objects to the database.
|image:support.gif[Supported,title="Supported"]
|image:support.gif[Supported,title="Supported"]

|link:#Collection_Mapping[Aggregate collection] |Map Java collections of
persistent objects to the database.
|image:unsupport.gif[Unsupported,title="Unsupported"]
|image:support.gif[Supported,title="Supported"]

|link:#Direct_Collection_Mapping[Direct collection] |Map Java
collections of objects that do not have descriptors.
|image:support.gif[Supported,title="Supported"]
|image:support.gif[Supported,title="Supported"]

|link:#Direct_Map_Mapping[Direct map] |Direct map mappings store
instances that implement `+java.util.Map+`.
|image:support.gif[Supported,title="Supported"]
|image:support.gif[Supported,title="Supported"]

|link:#Aggregate_Object_Mapping[Aggregate object] |Create strict
one-to-one mappings that require both objects to exist in the same
database row. |image:support.gif[Supported,title="Supported"]
|image:unsupport.gif[Unsupported,title="Unsupported"]

|link:#Transformation_Mapping[Transformation] |Create custom mappings
where one or more fields can be used to create the object to be stored
in the attribute. |image:support.gif[Supported,title="Supported"]
|image:support.gif[Supported,title="Supported"]
|===

== Relational Mapping Concepts

This section introduces direct mapping concepts unique to EclipseLink,
including the following:

* link:#Directionality[Directionality]
* link:#Converters_and_Transformers[Converters and Transformers]

=== Directionality

The direction of a relationship may be either unidirectional or
bidirectional. In a unidirectional relationship, only one entity bean
has a relationship field that refers to the other. All EclipseLink
relational mappings are unidirectional, from the class being described
(the _source_ class) to the class with which it is associated (the
_target_ class). The target class does not have a reference to the
source class in a unidirectional relationship.

In a bidirectional relationship, each entity bean has a relationship
field that refers to the other bean. Through the relationship field, an
entity bean’s code can access its related object. To implement a
bidirectional relationship (classes that reference each other), use two
unidirectional mappings with the sources and targets reversed.

Note: Maintenance of bidirectional relationships presents a number of
technical challenges.

For more information, see the following:

Configuring Bidirectional Relationship

Indirection (Lazy Loading)

=== Converters and Transformers

You can store object attributes directly in a database table as follows:

* link:#Using_a_Direct_Mapping[Direct mapping]
* link:#Using_a_Converter_Mapping[Converter Mapping]
* link:#Using_a_Transformation_Mapping[Transformation mapping]

==== Using a Direct Mapping

If the attribute type is comparable to a database type, the information
can be stored directly simply by using a
link:#Direct-to-Field_Mapping[Direct-to-Field Mapping].

==== Using a Converter Mapping

If the attribute type is comparable to a database type but requires
conversion, the information can be stored directly by using a
link:#Direct-to-Field_Mapping[Direct-to-Field Mapping] and an
appropriate `+Converter+` instance.

If the application’s objects contain attributes that cannot be
represented as direct-to-field with an existing converter, use a
direct-to-field mapping with a custom converter.

==== Using a Transformation Mapping

If there is no database primitive type that is logically comparable to
the attribute’s type, or, if an attribute requires data from multiple
fields, it must be transformed on its way to and from the database.

In this case, use a link:#Transformation_Mapping[transformation
mapping].

== Direct-to-Field Mapping

Use direct-to-field mappings to map primitive object attributes, or non
persistent regular objects, such as the JDK classes. For example, use a
direct-to-field mapping to store a `+String+` attribute in a `+VARCHAR+`
field.

[#Example 32-1]## *_Direct-to-Field Mapping Example_*

The link:#Figure_32-1[Direct-to-Field Mapping] figure illustrates a
direct-to-field mapping between the Java attribute `+city+` and the
relational database column `+CITY+`. Similarly, direct-to-field mappings
could be defined from `+country+` to `+COUNTRY+`, `+id+` to
`+ADDRESS_ID+`, `+established+` to `+EST_DATE+`, and `+province+` to
`+PROVINCE+`.

[#Figure 32-1]## *_Direct-to-Field Mapping_*

.Direct-to-Field Mapping
image::dtfmpfig.gif[Direct-to-Field
Mapping,title="Direct-to-Field Mapping"]

You can use a direct-to-field mapping with any of the following
`+Converter+` instances:

* link:Introduction%20to%20Mappings%20(ELUG)#Object_Type_Converter[Object
Type Converter]
* link:Introduction%20to%20Mappings%20(ELUG)#Serialized_Object_Converter[Serialized
Object Converter]
* link:Introduction%20to%20Mappings%20(ELUG)#[Type Conversion Converter]

You can use a direct-to-field mapping with a
link:Configuring%20a%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Change_Policy[change
policy].

See
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20Direct-to-Field%20Mapping_(ELUG)[Configuring
a Relational Direct-to-Field Mapping] for more information.

== Direct-to-XMLType Mapping

Using a direct-to-`+XMLType+` mapping, you can map XML data in the form
of a `+String+` or an org`+.w3c.dom.Document+` object to an *XMLType*
column in an Oracle Database (introduced in version 9.2.0.1).

If you plan to use direct-to-`+XMLType+` mappings in Workbench and the
EclipseLink runtime, you must include the Oracle Database `+xdb.jar+`
file in the Workbench classpath (see
link:Using%20Workbench%20(ELUG)#Configuring_the_Workbench_Environment[Configuring
the Workbench Environment]).

The EclipseLink query framework provides a number of expression
operators you can use to create queries based on the content of that XML
data (see
link:Introduction%20to%20EclipseLink%20Expressions%20(ELUG)#XMLType_Functions[XMLType
Functions]).

See
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20Direct-to-XMLType%20Mapping_(ELUG)[Configuring
a Relational Direct-to-XMLType Mapping] for more information.

== One-to-One Mapping

One-to-one mappings represent simple pointer references between two Java
objects. In Java, a single pointer stored in an attribute represents the
mapping between the source and target objects. Relational database
tables implement these mappings using foreign keys.

The link:#Figure_32-2[One-to-One Mappings] figure illustrates a
one-to-one relationship from the `+address+` attribute of an
`+Employee+` object to an `+Address+` object. To store this relationship
in the database, create a one-to-one mapping between the `+address+`
attribute and the `+Address+` class. This mapping stores the `+id+` of
the `+Address+` instance in the `+EMPLOYEE+` table when the `+Employee+`
instance is written. It also links the `+Employee+` instance to the
`+Address+` instance when the `+Employee+` is read from the database.
Because an `+Address+` does not have any references to the `+Employee+`,
it does not have to provide a mapping to `+Employee+`.

For one-to-one mappings, the source table normally contains a foreign
key reference to a record in the target table. In the
link:#Figure_32-2[One-to-One Mappings] figure, the `+ADDR_ID+` field of
the `+EMPLOYEE+` table is a foreign key.

[#Figure 32-2]## *_One-to-One Mappings_*

.One-to-One Mappings
image::onetoone_map_fig.gif[One-to-One
Mappings,title="One-to-One Mappings"]

You can also implement a one-to-one mapping where the target table
contains a foreign key reference to the source table. In the
link:#Figure_32-2[One-to-One Mappings] figure, the database design would
change such that the `+ADDRESS+` row would contain the `+EMP_ID+` to
identify the `+Employee+` to which it belonged. In this case, the target
must also have a relationship mapping to the source.

The update, insert and delete operations, which are normally done for
the target before the source for privately owned one-to-one
relationships, are performed in the opposite order when the target owns
the foreign key. Target foreign keys normally occur in bidirectional
one-to-one mappings (see link:#Directionality[Directionality]), because
one side has a foreign key and the other shares the same foreign key in
the other’s table.

Target foreign keys can also occur when large cascaded composite primary
keys exist (that is, one object’s primary key is composed of the primary
key of many other objects). In this case it is possible to have a
one-to-one mapping that contains both foreign keys and target foreign
keys.

In a foreign key, EclipseLink automatically updates the foreign key
value in the object’s row. In a target foreign key, it does not. In
EclipseLink, use the *Target Foreign Key* option when a target foreign
key relationship is defined.

When mapping a relationship, you must understand these differences
between a foreign key and a target foreign key, to ensure that the
relationship is defined correctly.

In a bidirectional relationship where the two classes in the
relationship reference each other, only one of the mappings should have
a foreign key. The other mapping should have a target foreign key. If
one of the mappings in a bidirectional relationship is a one-to-many
mapping, see
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20Variable%20One-to-One%20Mapping%20(ELUG)[Configuring
a Relational Variable One-to-One Mapping] for details.

You can use a one-to-one mapping with a
link:Configuring%20a%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Change_Policy[change
policy].

See
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20One-to-One%20Mapping%20(ELUG)[Configuring
a Relational One-to-One Mapping] for more information.

== Variable One-to-One Mapping

Variable class relationships are similar to polymorphic relationships,
except that in this case the target classes are not related through
inheritance (and thus not good candidates for an abstract table), but
through an interface.

To define variable class relationships in Workbench, use the variable
one-to-one mapping selection, but choose the interface as the reference
class. This makes the mapping a variable one-to-one. When defining
mappings in Java code, use the `+VariableOneToOneMapping+` class.

EclipseLink supports variable relationships only in one-to-one mappings.
It handles this relationship in two ways:

* Through the class indicator field (see
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20Variable%20One-to-One%20Mapping%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Class_Indicator[Configuring
Class Indicator]).
* Through unique primary key values among target classes implementing
the interface (see
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20Variable%20One-to-One%20Mapping%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Unique_Primary_Key[Configuring
Unique Primary Key]).

[#Figure 32-3]## *_Variable One-to-One Mappings with Class Indicator_*

.Variable One-to-One Mappings with Class Indicator
image::v11mapfig.gif[Variable One-to-One Mappings with Class
Indicator,title="Variable One-to-One Mappings with Class Indicator"]

See
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20Variable%20One-to-One%20Mapping%20(ELUG)[Configuring
a Relational Variable One-to-One Mapping] for more information.

== One-to-Many Mapping

One-to-many mappings are used to represent the relationship between a
single source object and a collection of target objects. They are a good
example of something that is simple to implement in Java using a
`+Collection+` (or other collection types) of target objects, but
difficult to implement using relational databases.

In a Java `+Collection+`, the owner references its parts. In a
relational database, the parts reference their owner. Relational
databases use this implementation to make querying more efficient.

The purpose of creating this one-to-one mapping in the target is so that
the foreign key information can be written when the target object is
saved. Alternatives to the one-to-one mapping back reference include the
following:

* Use a direct-to-field mapping to map the foreign key and maintain its
value in the application. Here the object model does not require a back
reference, but the data model still requires a foreign key in the target
table.
* Use a many-to-many mapping to implement a logical one-to-many. This
has the advantage of not requiring a back reference in the object model
and not requiring a foreign key in the data model. In this model the
many-to-many relation table stores the collection. It is possible to put
a constraint on the join table to enforce that the relation is a logical
one-to-many relationship.

[#Figure 32-4]## *_One-to-Many Relationships_*

.One-to-Many Relationships
image::onetomany_map_fig.gif[One-to-Many
Relationships,title="One-to-Many Relationships"]

[width="100%",cols="<100%",]
|===
|*_Note_*: The `+phone+` attribute shown in the
link:#Figure_32-4[One-to-Many Relationships] is of type `+Vector+`. You
can use a `+Collection+` interface (or any class that implements the
`+Collection+` interface) for declaring the collection attribute. See
link:Configuring%20a%20Mapping%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Container_Policy[Configuring
Container Policy] for details.
|===

You can use a many-to-many mapping with a
link:Configuring%20a%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Change_Policy[change
policy].

See
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20One-to-Many%20Mapping_(ELUG)[Configuring
a Relational One-to-Many Mapping] for more information.

== Many-to-Many Mapping

Many-to-many mappings represent the relationships between a collection
of source objects and a collection of target objects. They require the
creation of an intermediate table for managing the associations between
the source and target records.

This figure illustrates a many-to-many mapping in Java and in relational
database tables.

[#Figure 32-5]## *_Many-to-many Relationships_*

.Many-to-many Relationships
image::mmmapfig.gif[Many-to-many
Relationships,title="Many-to-many Relationships"]

[width="100%",cols="<100%",]
|===
|*_Note_*: The `+projects+` attribute shown in the
link:#Figure_32-5[Many-to-many Relationships] figure is of type
`+Vector+`. You can use a `+Collection+` interface (or any class that
implements the `+Collection+` interface) for declaring the collection
attribute. See
link:Configuring%20a%20Mapping%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Container_Policy[Configuring
Container Policy] for details.
|===

Many-to-many mappings are implemented using a relation table. This table
contains columns for the primary keys of the source and target tables.
Composite primary keys require a column for each field of the composite
key. The intermediate table must be created in the database before using
the many-to-many mapping.

The target class does not have to implement any behavior for the
many-to-many mappings. If the target class also creates a many-to-many
mapping back to its source, then it can use the same relation table, but
one of the mappings must be set to read-only. If both mappings write to
the table, they can cause collisions.

Indirection (lazy loading) is enabled by default in a many-to-many
mapping, which requires that the attribute have the
`+ValueHolderInterface+` type or transparent collections. For more
information on indirection, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Mappings%20(ELUG)#Indirection_(Lazy_Loading)[Indirection
(Lazy Loading)].

You can use a many-to-many mapping with a
link:Configuring%20a%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Change_Policy[change
policy]).

See
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20Many-to-Many%20Mapping_(ELUG)#Configuring_Change_Policy[Configuring
a Relational Many-to-Many Mapping] for more information.

== Aggregate Collection Mapping

Aggregate collection mappings are used to represent the aggregate
relationship between a single-source object and a collection of target
objects. Unlike the EclipseLink one-to-many mappings, in which there
should be a one-to-one back reference mapping from the target objects to
the source object, there is no back reference required for the aggregate
collection mappings, because the foreign key relationship is resolved by
the aggregation.

[width="100%",cols="<100%",]
|===
|*Note*: To use aggregate collections with Workbench, you must use an
amendment method (see
link:Configuring%20a%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Amendment_Methods[Configuring
Amendment Methods]), or manually edit the project source to add the
mapping.
|===

Although aggregate collection mappings are similar to one-to-many
mappings, they are not replacements for one-to-many mappings. Use
aggregate collections only in situations where the target collections
are of a reasonable size and if having a many-to-one back mapping is
difficult.

Because one-to-many relationships offer better performance and are more
robust and scalable, consider using a one-to-many relationship rather
than an aggregate collection. In addition, aggregate collections are
privately owned by the source of the relationship and must not be shared
or referenced by other objects.

This section describes the following:

* link:#Aggregate_Collection_Mappings_and_Inheritance[Aggregate
Collection Mappings and Inheritance]
* link:#Aggregate_Collection_Mappings_and_EJB[Aggregate Collection
Mappings and EJB]
* link:#How_to_Implement_Aggregate_Collection_Mapping[How to Implement
Aggregate Collection Mappings]

See
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20Aggregate%20Collection%20Mapping%20(ELUG)[Configuring
a Relational Aggregate Collection Mapping] for more information.

=== Aggregate Collection Mappings and Inheritance

Aggregate collection descriptors can use inheritance. You must also
declare subclasses as aggregate collection. The subclasses can have
their own mapped tables, or share the table with their parent class. See
link:Introduction%20to%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)[Descriptors and
Inheritance] for more information on inheritance.

=== Aggregate Collection Mappings and EJB

You can use aggregate collection mappings with entity beans if the
source of the relationship is an entity bean or Java object, and the
mapping targets are regular Java objects. Entity beans cannot be the
target of an aggregate object mapping.

=== How to Implement Aggregate Collection Mappings

In a Java `+Collection+`, the owner references its parts. In a
relational database, the parts reference their owners. Relational
databases use this implementation to make querying more efficient.

Aggregate collection mappings require a target table for the target
objects.

To implement an aggregate collection mapping, the following must take
place:

* The descriptor of the target class must declare itself to be an
aggregate collection object. Unlike the aggregate object mapping, in
which the target descriptor does not have a specific table to associate
with, there must be a target table for the target object.
* The descriptor of the source class must add an aggregate collection
mapping that specifies the target class.

== Direct Collection Mapping

Direct collection mappings store collections of Java objects that are
not EclipseLink-enabled. The object type stored in the direct collection
is typically a Java type, such as `+String+`.

It is also possible to use direct collection mappings to map a
collection of non-`+String+` objects. For example, it is possible to
have an attribute that contains a collection of `+Integer+` or `+Date+`
instances. The instances stored in the collection can be any type
supported by the database and has a corresponding wrapper class in Java.

Support for primitive data types such as `+int+` is not provided,
because Java `+Collection+` holds only objects.

The link:#Figure_32-6[Direct Collection Mappings] figure illustrates how
a direct collection is stored in a separate table with two fields. The
first field is the reference key field, which contains a reference to
the primary key of the instance owning the collection. The second field
contains an object in the collection and is called the direct field.
There is one record in the table for each object in the collection.

[#Figure 32-6]## *_Direct Collection Mappings_*

.Direct Collection Mappings
image::dcmapfig.gif[Direct Collection
Mappings,title="Direct Collection Mappings"]

[width="100%",cols="<100%",]
|===
|*_Note_*: The `+responsibilities+` attribute shown in the
link:#Figure_32-6[Direct Collection Mappings] figure is of type
`+Vector+`. You can use a `+Collection+` interface (or any class that
implements the `+Collection+` interface) for declaring the collection
attribute. See
link:Configuring%20a%20Mapping%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Container_Policy[Configuring
Container Policy] for details.
|===

Maps are not supported for direct collection because there is no key
value.

You can use a direct collection mapping with any of the following
`+Converter+` instances:

* link:Introduction%20to%20Mappings%20(ELUG)#Object_Type_Converter[Object
Type Converter]
* link:Introduction%20to%20Mappings%20(ELUG)#Serialized_Object_Converter[Serialized
Object Converter]
* link:Introduction%20to%20Mappings%20(ELUG)#Type_Conversion_Converter[Type
Conversion Converter]

You can use a direct collection mapping with a
link:Configuring%20a%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Change_Policy[change
policy]).

See
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20Direct%20Collection%20Mapping_(ELUG)[Configuring
a Relational Direct Collection Mapping] for more information.

== Direct Map Mapping

Direct map mappings store instances that implement `+java.util.Map+`.
Unlike one-to-many or many-to-many mappings, the keys and values of the
map in this type of mapping are Java objects that do not have
descriptors. The object type stored in the key and the value of direct
map are Java primitive wrapper types such as `+String+` objects.

The link:#Figure_32-7[Direct Map Mappings] figure illustrates how a
direct map is stored in a separate table with three fields. The first
field (`+EMPID+`) is the reference key field, which contains a reference
to the primary key of the instance owning the collection. The second
field (`+ADDRESS+`) contains an object in the collection and is called
the direct value field. The third field (`+TYPE+`) contains the direct
key field. In this example, the direct map uses a object type converter
for the direct key field, converting the single character *W* in the
database to the full string *Work* in the object (and *H* to *Home*).

[#Figure 32-7]## *_Direct Map Mappings_*

.Direct Map Mappings
image::dmmapfig.gif[Direct Map Mappings,title="Direct Map Mappings"]

You can use a direct collection mapping with any of the following
`+Converter+` instances:

* link:Introduction%20to%20Mappings%20(ELUG)#Object_Type_Converter[Object
Type Converter]
* link:Introduction%20to%20Mappings%20(ELUG)#Serialized_Object_Converter[Serialized
Object Converter]
* link:Introduction%20to%20Mappings%20(ELUG)#[Type Conversion Converter]

You can use a direct map mapping with a
link:Configuring%20a%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Change_Policy[change
policy]).

See
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20Direct%20Map%20Mapping%20(ELUG)[Configuring
a Relational Direct Map Mapping] for more information.

== Aggregate Object Mapping

Two objects–a source (parent or owning) object and a target (child or
owned) object–are related by aggregation if there is a strict one-to-one
relationship between them and all the attributes of the target object
can be retrieved from the same table(s) as the source object. This means
that if the source object exists, then the target object must also exist
and if the source object is destroyed, then the target object is also
destroyed.

An aggregate mapping allows you to associate data members in the target
object with fields in the source object’s underlying database tables.

You configure the aggregate mapping in the source object’s descriptor.
However, before doing so, you must designate the target object’s
descriptor as an aggregate (see
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_a_Relational_Descriptor_as_a_Class_or_Aggregate_Type[Configuring
a Relational Descriptor as a Class or Aggregate Type]).

Aggregate objects are privately owned and should not be shared or
referenced by other objects.

You cannot configure one-to-one, one-to-many, or many-to-many mappings
from a nonaggregate object to an aggregate target object.

You can configure such mappings from an aggregate target object to
another nonaggregate object. If you configure a one-to-many mapping from
an aggregate target object to another nonaggregate object, you must
configure a one-to-one mapping from the other object back to the source
object that owns the aggregate (instead of to the aggregate target
object itself). This is because the source object contains the table and
primary key information of the aggregate target.

You can configure inheritance for a descriptor designated as an
aggregate (see
link:Introduction%20to%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)#Descriptors_and_Inheritance[Descriptors
and Inheritance]), however, in this case, _all_ the descriptors in the
inheritance tree must be aggregates. Aggregate and class descriptors
cannot exist in the same inheritance tree.

This section describes the following:

* link:#Aggregate_Object_Mappings_with_a_Single_Source_Object[Aggregate
Object Mappings with a Single Source Object]
* link:#Aggregate_Object_Mappings_with_Multiple_Source_Objects[Aggregate
Object Mappings with Multiple Source Objects]
* link:#How_to_Implement_an_Aggregate_Object_Relationship_Mapping[How to
Implement an Aggregate Object Relationship Mapping]

You can use an aggregate object mapping with a
link:Configuring%20a%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Change_Policy[change
policy].

For more information on configuring an aggregate object relationship
mapping, see
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20Aggregate%20Object%20Mapping_(ELUG)[Configuring
a Relational Aggregate Object Mapping].

=== Aggregate Object Mappings with a Single Source Object

The link:#Figure_32-8[Aggregate Object Mapping with a Single Source
Object] figure shows an example aggregate object mapping between source
object `+Employee+` and target object `+Period+`. In this example, the
target object is not shared by other types of source object.

[#Figure 32-8]## *_Aggregate Object Mapping with a Single Source
Object_*

.Aggregate Object Mapping with a Single Source Object
image::agmapfig.gif[Aggregate Object Mapping with a Single Source
Object,title="Aggregate Object Mapping with a Single Source Object"]

Aggregate target classes not shared among multiple source classes can
have any type of mapping, including other aggregate object mappings.

=== Aggregate Object Mappings with Multiple Source Objects

The link:#Figure_32-9[Aggregate Object Mapping with Multiple Source
Objects] figure shows an example aggregate object mapping in which
different source objects–`+Employee+` and `+Project+`–map instances of
the same type of target object, `+Period+`.

[#Figure 32-9]## *_Aggregate Object Mapping with Multiple Source
Objects_*

.Aggregate Object Mapping with Multiple Source Objects
image::agmultiple.gif[Aggregate Object Mapping with Multiple Source
Objects,title="Aggregate Object Mapping with Multiple Source Objects"]

When you configure the aggregate object mapping in the source object,
you choose the source object table for that particular mapping. This
allows different source types to store the same target information
within their tables. Each source object’s table may use different field
names. EclipseLink automatically manages the case where multiple source
object tables use different field names.

For example, in the link:#Figure_32-9[Aggregate Object Mapping with
Multiple Source Objects] figure, The `+Employee+` attribute
`+employPeriod+` is mapped by an aggregate object mapping to target
object `+Period+`. This mapping associates `+Period+` attribute
`+startDate+` with `+EMPLOYEE+` table field `+START_DATE+`. The
`+Project+` attribute `+projectPeriod+` is also mapped by an aggregate
object mapping to target object `+Period+`. This mapping associates
`+Period+` attribute `+startDate+` with `+PROJECT+` table field
`+S_DATE+`.

Aggregate target classes shared with multiple source classes cannot have
one-to-many or many-to-many mappings.

=== How to Implement an Aggregate Object Relationship Mapping

You must ensure that the following takes place:

* The descriptor of the target class declares itself to be an aggregate
object. Because all its information comes from its parent’s table(s),
the target descriptor does not have a specific table associated with it.
You must, however, choose one or more candidate table(s) from which you
can use fields in mapping the target.In the example above, you could
choose the `+EMPLOYEE+` table so that the `+START_DATE+` and
`+END_DATE+` fields are available during mapping.
* The descriptor of the source class adds an aggregate object mapping
that specifies the target class. In the example above, the `+Employee+`
class has an attribute called `+employPeriod+` that would be mapped as
an aggregate object mapping with `+Period+` as the reference class. The
source class must ensure that its table has fields that correspond to
the field names registered with the target class.
* If a source object has a `+null+` target reference, EclipseLink writes
`+null+` values to the aggregate database fields (see
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20Aggregate%20Object%20Mapping_(ELUG)#Configuring_Allowing_Null_Values[Configuring
Allowing Null Values]). When the source is read from the database, it
can handle this `+null+` target in one of two ways:
** Create an instance of the object with all its attributes equal to
`+null+`.
** Put a `+null+` reference in the source object without instantiating a
target. (This is the default method of handling `+null+` targets.)

== Transformation Mapping

Use transformation mappings for specialized translations for how a value
is represented in Java and how it is represented in the database.

[width="100%",cols="<100%",]
|===
|*Tip*: Use transformation mappings only when mapping multiple fields
into a single attribute. Because of the complexity of transformation
mappings, it is often easier to perform the transformation with a
converter or getter and setter methods of a direct-to-field mapping. See
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20Direct-to-Field%20Mapping_(ELUG)[Configuring
a Relational Direct-to-Field Mapping] for more information.
|===

The link:#Figure_32-10[Transformation Mappings] figure illustrates a
transformation mapping. The values from the `+B_DATE+` and `+B_TIME+`
fields are used to create a `+java.util.Date+` to be stored in the
`+birthDate+` attribute.

[#'Figure 32-10]## *_Transformation Mappings_*

.Transformation Mappings
image::trmapfig.gif[Transformation
Mappings,title="Transformation Mappings"]

Often, a transformation mapping is appropriate when values from multiple
fields are used to create an object. This type of mapping requires that
you provide an _attribute transformation_ that is invoked when reading
the object from the database. This must have at least one parameter that
is an instance of `+Record+`. In your attribute transformation, you can
use `+Record+` method `+get+` to retrieve the value in a specific
column. Your attribute transformation can specify a second parameter,
when it is an instance of `+Session+`. The `+Session+` performs queries
on the database to get additional values needed in the transformation.
The transformation should _return_ the value to be stored in the
attribute.

Transformation mappings also require a _field transformation_ for each
field, to be written to the database when the object is saved. The
transformation returns the value to be stored in that field.

See
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20Transformation%20Mapping%20(ELUG)[Configuring
a Relational Transformation Mapping] for more information.

'''''

_link:EclipseLink_User's_Guide_Copyright_Statement[Copyright Statement]_

Category:_EclipseLink_User's_Guide[Category: EclipseLink User’s Guide]
Category:_Release_1[Category: Release 1] Category:_Concept[Category:
Concept] Category:_ORM[Category: ORM]
