image:Elug_draft_icon.png[Image:Elug draft
icon.png,title="Image:Elug draft icon.png"] *For the latest EclipseLink
documentation, please see
http://www.eclipse.org/eclipselink/documentation/*

'''''

*TOC*
Special:Whatlinkshere_Introduction_to_Persistence_Layer_(ELUG)[Related
Topics]

This section provides the conceptual overview of the persistence layer
of an EclipseLink application.

[#Persistence Layer Concepts]## The purpose of your application’s
persistence layer is to use link:#transactions-sessions[a session] at
run time to associate
link:Introduction_to_EclipseLink_Application_Development_(ELUG)#Mapping_Metatdata[mapping
metadata] and a link:#transactions-data-access[data source] in order to
create, read, update, and delete persistent objects using the
link:#transactions-cache[EclipseLink cache],
link:#transactions-queries-and-expressions[queries and expressions], as
well as link:#transactions-transactions[transactions].

This section introduces the following persistence layer concepts:

* link:#transactions-sessions[Sessions]
* link:#transactions-data-access[Data Access]
* link:#transactions-cache[Cache]
* link:#transactions-queries-and-expressions[Queries and Expressions]
* link:#transactions-transactions[Transactions]

== [#transactions-sessions]#Sessions#

A session is the primary interface between the client application and
the EclipseLink runtime, and represents the connection to the underlying
data source.

For POJO projects, EclipseLink offers several different
link:Introduction%20to%20EclipseLink%20Sessions%20(ELUG)[session types],
each optimized for different design requirements and architectures. The
most commonly used session is the server session–a session that clients
access on the server through a client session. The server session
provides a shared cache and shared connection resources.

In JPA projects, sessions are used internally as follows:

* an `+EntityManagerFactory+` wraps an
`+org.eclipse.persistence.threetier.ServerSession+`;
* an `+EntityManager+` wraps an
`+org.eclipse.persistence.sessions.UnitOfWork+` and an
`+org.eclipse.persistence.threetier.ClientSession+`.

== [#transactions-data-access]#Data Access#

The login (if any) associated with a session determines how the
EclipseLink runtime connects to the project’s data source.

A login includes details of data source access, such as authentication,
use of connection pools, and use of external transaction controllers. A
login (an instance of `+Login+` interface) owns a data source platform.

A platform includes options, such as binding, use of native SQL, use of
batch writing, and sequencing, that are specific to a particular data
source. For more information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Data%20Access%20(ELUG)#Data_Source_Platform_Types[Data
Source Platform Types].

For projects that do not persist to a data source, a login is not
required. For projects that do persist to a data source, a login is
always required.

For more information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Data%20Access%20(ELUG)[Introduction to Data
Access]

== [#transactions-cache]#Cache#

By default, an EclipseLink session provides an object level cache that
guarantees object identity and enhances performance by reducing the
number of times the application needs to access the data source.
EclipseLink provides a variety of cache options, including locking,
refresh, invalidation, isolation, and coordination. Using cache
coordination, you can configure EclipseLink to synchronize changes with
other instances of the deployed application. You configure most cache
options at the session level. You can also configure cache options on a
per-query basis, or on a descriptor to apply to all queries on the
reference class.

For more information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Cache%20(ELUG)[Introduction to Cache].

== [#transactions-queries-and-expressions]#Queries and Expressions#

EclipseLink provides several object and data query types, and offers
flexible options for query selection criteria, including the following:

* EclipseLink expressions
* JP QL
* SQL
* Stored procedures
* Query by example

With these options, you can build any type of query. We recommend using
predefined queries to define application queries. Predefined queries are
held in the project metadata and referenced by name. This simplifies
application development and encapsulates the queries to reduce
maintenance costs.

Regardless of the architecture or persistent entity type, you are free
to use any of the query options. The Workbench provides the simplest way
to define queries. Alternatively, you can build queries in code, using
the EclipseLink API.

For more information, see the following:

* link:Introduction%20to%20EclipseLink%20Queries%20(ELUG)[Introduction
to EclipseLink Queries]
* link:Introduction%20to%20EclipseLink%20Expressions%20(ELUG)[Introduction
to EclipseLink Expressions]

== [#transactions-transactions]#Transactions#

EclipseLink provides the ability to write transactional code isolated
from the underlying database and schema by using a *unit of work*.

The unit of work isolates changes in a transaction from other threads
until it successfully commits the changes to the database. Unlike other
transaction mechanisms, the unit of work automatically manages changes
to the objects in the transaction, the order of the changes, and changes
that might invalidate other EclipseLink caches. The unit of work manages
these issues by calculating a minimal change set, ordering the database
calls to comply with referential integrity rules and deadlock avoidance,
and merging changed objects into the shared cache. In a clustered
environment, the unit of work also synchronizes changes with the other
servers in the coordinated cache.

If an application uses EJB entity beans, you do not access the unit of
work API directly, but you still benefit from its features: the
integration between the EclipseLink runtime and the Java EE container
automatically uses the unit of work.

For more information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20EclipseLink%20Transactions_(ELUG)[Introduction
to EclipseLink Transactions].

'''''

_link:EclipseLink_User's_Guide_Copyright_Statement[Copyright Statement]_

Category:_EclipseLink_User's_Guide[Category: EclipseLink User’s Guide]
Category:_Release_1[Category: Release 1] Category:_Concept[Category:
Concept]
