*TOC*
Special:Whatlinkshere_Introduction_to_Relational_Descriptors_(ELUG)[Related
Topics]

This section provides an overview of relational descriptors, as well as
explains the role of inheritance and various types of descriptors in
relational projects.

For information on descriptor concepts and features common to more than
one type of EclipseLink descriptors, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)[Introduction to
Descriptors].

Relational descriptors describe Java objects that you map to tables in a
relational database. You use them in
link:Introduction%20to%20Relational%20Projects%20(ELUG)[relational
projects].

Using relational descriptors in a relational project, you can configure
link:Introduction%20to%20Relational%20Mappings%20(ELUG)[relational
mappings].

For more information, see the following:

* link:Creating%20a%20Relational%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)[Creating a
Relational Descriptor]
* link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)[Configuring a
Relational Descriptor]

== Aggregate and Composite Descriptors in Relational Projects

In a relational project, you can designate the descriptor
link:Creating%20a%20Relational%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Creating_Relational_Aggregate_Descriptors[as
an aggregate].

This lets you configure
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20Aggregate%20Object%20Mapping_(ELUG)[an
aggregate mapping] to associate data members in the target object with
fields in the source objectâ€™s underlying database tables.

When you designate a relational descriptor as an aggregate, EclipseLink
lets you specify a mapping type for each field in the target class, but
defers associating the field with a database table until you configure
the aggregate object mapping in the source descriptor. In other words,
the target class descriptor defines _how_ each target class field is
mapped, but the source class descriptor defines _where_ each target
class field is mapped. This lets you share an aggregate object among
many parent descriptors mapped to different tables.

When you designate a relational descriptor as an aggregate, you tell
EclipseLink that the class will be a target of an aggregate object
mapping, and this ensures that the EclipseLink runtime handles the
target class as follows:

* It inserts, updates, and deletes the target class in parallel with its
source class.
* It does not cache the target class on its own; instead, it caches the
target class as part of its source class.
* It does not allow the target class to be read, written, deleted, or
registered in a unit of work.

When working with aggregate relational descriptors, consider the
following:

* link:#Relational_Aggregates_and_Nesting[Relational Aggregates and
Nesting]
* link:#Relational_Aggregates_and_Inheritance[Relational Aggregates and
Inheritance]

For more information, see
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_a_Relational_Descriptor_as_a_Class_or_Aggregate_Type[Configuring
a Relational Descriptor as a Class or Aggregate Type].

=== Relational Aggregates and Nesting

EclipseLink supports nested aggregates. In the link:#Figure_26-1[Nested
Aggregates] figure, source class `+HockeyPlayer+` is a normal
nonaggregate class descriptor. It owns target class `+Info+` which is
designated as an aggregate. The `+Info+` class itself owns target
classes `+PersonalInfo+` and `+TeamInfo+` which are each designated as
aggregates.

[#Figure 26-1]## *_Nested Aggregates_*

.Nested Aggregates
image::nestagg.gif[Nested Aggregates,title="Nested Aggregates"]

In EJB 3.0, an aggregate is known as an embeddable. In the EJB 3.0
specification, an embeddable may not contain another embeddable (that
is, the EJB 3.0 specification does not support nested aggregates).

However, if you deploy an EclipseLink-enabled EJB 3.0 application with
persistence to OC4J, you can take advantage of an EclipseLink extension
of the EJB 3.0 specification to configure nested embeddables. Note that
if you do so, your application will not be strictly EJB 3.0-compliant.
The link:#Example_26-1[Nested Embeddables] example shows the classes
from the link:#Figure_26-1[Nested Aggregates] figure, using EJB 3.0
annotations to take advantage of the EclipseLink extension of the EJB
3.0 specification to allow `+Info+` (an embeddable) to own embeddables
`+TeamInfo+` and `+PersonalInfo+`.

[#Example 26-1]## *_Nested Embeddables_*

[source,java]
----
 public class HockeyPlayer implements Serializable {
     private int playerId;
     private Info Info;
     private String lastName;
     private String firstName;
     ...
     @Embedded
     public Info getInfo() {
         return Info;
     }
 }

 @Embeddable
 public class Info implements Serializable {
     TeamInfo teamInfo; // EclipseLink extension of EJB 3.0 allows Embeddable with Embeddable
     PersonalInfo personalInfo;

     public Info() {}

     @Embedded
     public PersonalInfo getPersonalInfo() {
         return personalInfo;
     }

     public void setPersonalInfo(PersonalInfo personalInfo) {
         this.personalInfo = personalInfo;
     }

     @Embedded
     public TeamInfo getTeamInfo() {
         return teamInfo;
     }

     public void setTeamInfo(TeamInfo teamInfo) {
         this.teamInfo = teamInfo;
     }
 }

 @Embeddable
 public class PersonalInfo implements Serializable {
     private int age;
     private double weight;
     private double height;
     ...
 }

 @Embeddable
 public class TeamInfo implements Serializable {
     private String position;
     private int jerseyNumber;
     private HockeyTeam hockeyTeam;
     ...
 }
----

=== Relational Aggregates and Inheritance

You can configure inheritance for a relational descriptor designated as
an aggregate (see
link:Introduction%20to%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)[Descriptors and
Inheritance]), however, in this case, _all_ the descriptors in the
inheritance tree must be aggregates. Aggregate and class descriptors
cannot exist in the same inheritance tree.

== Descriptors and Inheritance in Relational Projects

Inheritance describes how a derived class inherits the characteristics
of its superclass. You can use descriptors to describe the inheritance
relationships between classes in your relational projects.

This section includes information on the following topics:

* link:#Inheritance_and_Primary_Keys_in_Relational_Projects[Inheritance
and Primary Keys in Relational Projects]
* link:#Single-_and_Multi-Table_Inheritance_in_Relational_Projects[Single-
and Multi-Table Inheritance in Relational Projects]

For more information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)[Descriptors and
Inheritance].

=== Inheritance and Primary Keys in Relational Projects

For relational projects, EclipseLink assumes that all of the classes in
an inheritance hierarchy have the same primary key, as set in the root
descriptor. Child descriptors associated with data source
representations that have different primary keys must define the mapping
between the root primary key and the local one.

For more information, see
link:Configuring%20a%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)[Configuring Primary Keys].

=== Single- and Multi-Table Inheritance in Relational Projects

In a relational project, you can map your inheritance hierarchy to
link:#Single-Table_Inheritance[a single table] or to
link:#Multi-Table_Inheritance[multiple tables]. Use these options to
achieve the balance between storage efficiency and access efficiency
that is appropriate for your application.

==== Single-Table Inheritance

In this example, you store classes with multiple levels of inheritance
in a single table to optimize database access speeds.

The entire inheritance hierarchy shown in the link:#Figure_26-1[Nested
Aggregates] figure can share the same table, as in the
link:#Figure_26-2[Inheritance Using a Superclass Table with Optional
Fields] figure. The `+FueledVehicle+` and `+NonFueledVehicle+`
subclasses can share the same table even though `+FueledVehicle+` has
some attributes that `+NonFueledVehicle+` does not. The
`+NonFueledVehicle+` instances waste database resources because the
database must still allocate space for the unused portion of its row.
However, this approach saves on accessing time because there is no need
to join to another table to get the additional `+FueledVehicle+`
information.

As this figure shows, this approach uses a class indicator field. For
more information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)#How_to_Specify_a_Class_Indicator[How
to Specify a Class Indicator].

[#'Figure 26-2]## *_Inheritance Using a Superclass Table with Optional
Fields_*

.Inheritance Using a Superclass Table with Optional Fields
image::inhtable.gif[Inheritance Using a Superclass Table with Optional
Fields,title="Inheritance Using a Superclass Table with Optional Fields"]

==== Multi-Table Inheritance

In this example, you store classes with multiple levels of inheritance
in multiple tables to optimize database storage space.

In the inheritance hierarchy shown in the link:#Figure_26-1[Nested
Aggregates] figure, for subclasses that require additional attributes,
you use multiple tables instead of a single superclass table. This
optimizes storage space because there are no unused fields in the
database. However, this may affect performance because EclipseLink must
read from more than one table before it can instantiate the object.
EclipseLink first looks at
link:Introduction%20to%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)#How_to_Specify_a_Class_Indicator[the
class indicator field] to determine the class of object to create, then
uses the descriptor for that class to read from the subclass tables.

The link:#Figure_26-3[Inheritance Using Separate Tables for Each
Subclass] figure illustrates the EclipseLink implementation of the
`+FUELEDVHCL+`, `+CAR+`, and `+BICYCLE+` tables. All objects are stored
in the `+VEHICLE+` table. `+FueledVehicle+`, `+Car+`, and `+Bicycle+`
information are also stored in secondary tables. Note that because the
`+NonFueledVehicle+` class does not hold any attributes or
relationships, it does not need a secondary table.

[#Figure 26-3]## *_Inheritance Using Separate Tables for Each Subclass_*

.Inheritance Using Separate Tables for Each Subclass
image::inhsepar.gif[Inheritance Using Separate Tables for Each
Subclass,title="Inheritance Using Separate Tables for Each Subclass"]

[width="100%",cols="<100%",]
|===
|*_Note_*: In general, using multitable inheritance is inefficient
because it can require excessive joins and multiple table fetching.
|===

===== Inheritance Outer-Joins

If a root or branch inheritance descriptor has subclasses that span
multiple tables, you can configure a database view to optimize the
performance of queries against the parent descriptor by outer-joining
all of the subclass tables. This allows EclipseLink to fetch all of the
subclass instances in one query, instead of multiple queries. It also
allows queries for the parent class that use cursors or ordering.

By default, EclipseLink executes multiple queries to read in a multiple
table inheritance hierarchy, which, in some cases, is the most efficient
way to query. In addition, EclipseLink supports querying the inheritance
hierarchy using
link:Configuring%20a%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Reading_Subclasses_on_Queries[a
single outer-join query].

You can also set a database view on the descriptor that outer-joins or
unions all of the tables. For more information, see
link:Configuring%20a%20Relational%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Multitable_Information[Configuring
Multitable Information].

'''''

_link:EclipseLink_User's_Guide_Copyright_Statement[Copyright Statement]_

Category:_EclipseLink_User's_Guide[Category: EclipseLink Userâ€™s Guide]
Category:_Release_1[Category: Release 1] Category:_Concept[Category:
Concept] Category:_ORM[Category: ORM]
