///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2022 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

    This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
    terms of the Eclipse Public License v. 2.0, which is available at
    http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0.

    This Source Code may also be made available under the following Secondary
    Licenses when the conditions for such availability set forth in the
    Eclipse Public License v. 2.0 are satisfied: GNU General Public License,
    version 2 with the GNU Classpath Exception, which is available at
    https://www.gnu.org/software/classpath/license.html.

    SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0 OR GPL-2.0 WITH Classpath-exception-2.0

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

== EclipseLink

Developing Persistence Architectures Using EclipseLink Database Web Services {release-version}

{release-date}
This document provides information on using EclipseLink with EclipseLink
DBWS (Database web services) to provide a persistence framework.

'''''

Oracle Fusion Middleware Developing Persistence Architectures Using
EclipseLink Database Web Services, Release 4.0

Copyright © 1997, 2014, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights
reserved.

This software and related documentation are provided under a license
agreement containing restrictions on use and disclosure and are
protected by intellectual property laws. Except as expressly permitted
in your license agreement or allowed by law, you may not use, copy,
reproduce, translate, broadcast, modify, license, transmit, distribute,
exhibit, perform, publish, or display any part, in any form, or by any
means. Reverse engineering, disassembly, or decompilation of this
software, unless required by law for interoperability, is prohibited.

The information contained herein is subject to change without notice and
is not warranted to be error-free. If you find any errors, please report
them to us in writing.

If this software or related documentation is delivered to the U.S.
Government or anyone licensing it on behalf of the U.S. Government, the
following notice is applicable:

U.S. GOVERNMENT RIGHTS Programs, software, databases, and related
documentation and technical data delivered to U.S. Government customers
are "commercial computer software" or "commercial technical data"
pursuant to the applicable Federal Acquisition Regulation and
agency-specific supplemental regulations. As such, the use, duplication,
disclosure, modification, and adaptation shall be subject to the
restrictions and license terms set forth in the applicable Government
contract, and, to the extent applicable by the terms of the Government
contract, the additional rights set forth in FAR 52.227-19, Commercial
Computer Software License (December 2007). Oracle USA, Inc., 500 Oracle
Parkway, Redwood City, CA 94065.

This software is developed for general use in a variety of information
management applications. It is not developed or intended for use in any
inherently dangerous applications, including applications which may
create a risk of personal injury. If you use this software in dangerous
applications, then you shall be responsible to take all appropriate
fail-safe, backup, redundancy, and other measures to ensure the safe use
of this software. Oracle Corporation and its affiliates disclaim any
liability for any damages caused by use of this software in dangerous
applications.

Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation and/or its
affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.

This software and documentation may provide access to or information on
content, products, and services from third parties. Oracle Corporation
and its affiliates are not responsible for and expressly disclaim all
warranties of any kind with respect to third-party content, products,
and services. Oracle Corporation and its affiliates will not be
responsible for any loss, costs, or damages incurred due to your access
to or use of third-party content, products, or services.

'''''
