*TOC* Special:Whatlinkshere_Configuring_an_XML_Mapping_(ELUG)[Related
Topics]

For information on how to create EclipseLink mappings, see
link:Creating%20a%20Mapping%20(ELUG)[Creating a Mapping].

This table lists the types of XML mappings that you can configure and
provides a cross-reference to the type-specific chapter that lists the
configurable options supported by that type.

[#Table 59-1]##

Mapping Type

Seeâ€¦

XML Direct Mapping

Configuring an XML Direct Mapping

XML Composite Direct Collection Mapping

Configuring an XML Composite Direct Collection Mapping

XML Composite Object Mapping

Configuring an XML Composite Object Mapping

XML Composite Collection Mapping

Configuring an XML Composite Collection Mapping

XML Any Object Mapping

Configuring an XML Any Object Mapping

XML Any Collection Mapping

Configuring an XML Any Collection Mapping

XML Transformation Mapping

Configuring an XML Transformation Mapping

XML Object Reference Mapping

Configuring an XML Object Reference Mapping

XML Collection Reference Mapping

Configuring an XML Collection Reference Mapping

XML Binary Data Mapping

Configuring an XML Binary Data Mapping

XML Binary Data Collection Mapping

Configuring an XML Binary Data Collection Mapping

XML Fragment Mapping

Configuring an XML Fragment Mapping

XML Fragment Collection Mapping

Configuring an XML Fragment Collection Mapping

XML Choice Object Mapping

Configuring an XML Choice Object Mapping

XML Choice Collection Mapping

Configuring an XML Choice Collection Mapping

XML Any Attribute Mapping

Configuring an XML Any Attribute Mapping

For more information, see the following:

* link:Introduction%20to%20Mappings%20(ELUG)[Introduction to Mappings]
* link:Introduction%20to%20XML%20Mappings%20(ELUG)[Introduction to XML
Mappings]
* link:Configuring%20a%20Mapping%20(ELUG)[Configuring a Mapping]

== Configuring Common XML Mapping Options

This table lists the configurable options shared by two or more XML
mapping types. In addition to the configurable options described here,
you must also configure the options described for the specific
link:Introduction%20to%20XML%20Mappings%20(ELUG)#XML_Mapping_Types[XML
Mapping Types], as shown in this table:

[#Table 59-2]##

Option

EclipseLink Workbench

Java

Configuring XPath

Configuring Reference Descriptor

Configuring Container Policy

Configuring Method or Direct Field Accessing at the Mapping Level

Configuring a Mapping

Configuring Maps to Wildcard

Configuring a Serialized Object Converter

Configuring a Type Conversion Converter

Configuring an Object Type Converter

Configuring a Simple Type Translator

Configuring the Use of a Single Node

Configuring the Use of CDATA

Configuring Reference Class

Configuring the Use of Inline Binary Data

Configuring the Use of SwaRef Type

Configuring Source to Target Key Field Association

Configuring the Choice Element

== Configuring Reference Descriptor

For XML attributes that reference other descriptors (instead of a schema
element), you may select a specific reference descriptor. If you do not
specify a reference descriptor, EclipseLink uses the `+xsi:Type+`
attribute to determine the reference class object.

This table summarizes which XML mappings support reference descriptor
configuration.

[#Table 59-3]## *_XML Mapping Support for Reference Descriptor
Configuration_*

XML Mapping

Using the Workbench

Using Java

XML direct mapping

XML composite direct collection mapping

XML composite object mapping

XML composite collection mapping

XML any object mapping

XML any collection mapping

XML transformation mapping

XML object reference mapping

XML object collection mapping

XML binary data mapping

XML binary data collection mapping

XML fragment mapping

XML fragment collection mapping

XML choice object mapping

XML choice collection mapping

XML any attribute mapping

=== How to Configure a Reference Descriptor Using Workbench

To specify a reference descriptor for an XML mapping that references
another descriptor (instead of a schema element), use this procedure.

[arabic]
. Select the mapped attribute in the *Navigator*. Its properties appear
in the Editor.
. Click the *General* tab. The General tab appears.*_General Tab,
Reference Descriptor Field_* image:xmlrefd.gif[General Tab, Reference
Descriptor Field,title="General Tab, Reference Descriptor Field"]
. If this XML attribute refers to another descriptor (instead of a
schema element), use the *Reference Descriptor* field to select a
descriptor in the project.

== Configuring Maps to Wildcard

This attribute applies only to the Workbench. Use this option to solve
"`No XPath specified`" problems (see
link:Using%20Workbench%20(ELUG)#How_to_Use_the_Problems_Window[How to
Use the Problems Window]) for an XML mapping that does not need an XPath
(see
link:Configuring%20a%20Mapping%20(ELUG)#Configuring_XPath[Configuring
XPath]) for it maps to a wildcard.

If the XML mapping is owned by an `+anyType+` descriptor (see
link:Configuring%20an%20XML%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_for_Complex_Type_of_anyType[Configuring
for Complex Type of anyType]), it cannot map to a wildcard, and you must
specify an XPath.

This table summarizes which XML mappings support maps to wildcard
configuration.

[#Table 59-4]## *_XML Mapping Support for Maps to Wildcard
Configuration_*

XML Mapping

Using the Workbench

Using Java

XML direct mapping

XML composite direct collection mapping

XML composite object mapping

XML composite collection mapping

XML any object mapping

XML any collection mapping

XML transformation mapping

XML object reference mapping

XML object collection mapping

XML binary data mapping

XML binary data collection mapping

XML fragment mapping

XML fragment collection mapping

XML choice object mapping

XML choice collection mapping

XML any attribute mapping

=== How to Configure Maps to Wildcard Using Workbench

To specify a map a schema element using the `+xs:any+` declaration, use
this procedure.

[arabic]
. Select the mapped attribute in the *Navigator*. Its properties appear
in the Editor.
. *_Mapping Tab, Maps to Wildcard Option_* image:wildcard.gif[Mapping
Tab, Maps to Wildcard
Option,title="Mapping Tab, Maps to Wildcard Option"]
. If the XML mapping is not owned by an `+anyType+` descriptor (see
link:Configuring%20an%20XML%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)#Configuring_for_Complex_Type_of_anyType[Configuring
for Complex Type of anyType]) and maps to a wildcard, then you do not
need to specify an XPath (see
link:Configuring%20a%20Mapping%20(ELUG)#Configuring_XPath[Configuring
XPath]). Select the *Maps to Wildcard (uses "`any`" tag)* option to
clear the missing XPath neediness message.
. If the XML mapping is owned by an `+anyType+` descriptor, it cannot
map to a wildcard and you must specify an XPath. Deselect the *Maps to
Wildcard (Uses "`any`" tag)* option and ensure that you specify an
XPath.

== Configuring Source to Target Key Field Association

This option is applicable to key on source-based mappings. Use this
option to add a source and target XPath pair to the map of such key
pairs.

This table summarizes which XML mappings support source to target key
field association configuration.

[#Table 59-5]## *_XML Mapping Support for Source to Target Key Field
Association Configuration_*

XML Mapping

Using the Workbench

Using Java

XML direct mapping

XML composite direct collection mapping

XML composite object mapping

XML composite collection mapping

XML any object mapping

XML any collection mapping

XML transformation mapping

XML object reference mapping

XML object collection mapping

XML binary data mapping

XML binary data collection mapping

XML fragment mapping

XML fragment collection mapping

XML choice object mapping

XML choice collection mapping

XML any attribute mapping

=== How to Configure Source to Target Key Field Association Using Java

To configure the source to target key field association for your
mapping, use the `+XMLObjectReferenceMapping+` method
`+addSourceToTargetKeyFieldAssociation+` to add a specified source and
target XPath pair to the map.

== Configuring Reference Class

This option is applicable to key on source-based mappings.

Use this option to define the reference class, whose instances your XML
object reference mapping will store in the domain objects.

This table summarizes which XML mappings support source to target key
field association configuration.

[#Table 59-6]## *_XML Mapping Support for Reference Class
Configuration_*

XML Mapping

Using the Workbench

Using Java

XML direct mapping

XML composite direct collection mapping

XML composite object mapping

XML composite collection mapping

XML any object mapping

XML any collection mapping

XML transformation mapping

XML object reference mapping

XML object collection mapping

XML binary data mapping

XML binary data collection mapping

XML fragment mapping

XML fragment collection mapping

XML choice object mapping

XML choice collection mapping

XML any attribute mapping

=== How to Configure Reference Class Using Java

To configure a reference class for your mapping, use the
`+AggregateMapping+` method `+setReferenceClass+`.

== Configuring the Use of Inline Binary Data

This option is applicable to binary data mappings.

Use this option to define whether or not there should always be inline
binary data for this mapping.

This table summarizes which XML mappings support the use of inline
binary data configuration.

[#Table 59-7]## *_XML Mapping Support for the Use of Inline Binary Data
Configuration_*

XML Mapping

Using the Workbench

Using Java

XML direct mapping

XML composite direct collection mapping

XML composite object mapping

XML composite collection mapping

XML any object mapping

XML any collection mapping

XML transformation mapping

XML object reference mapping

XML object collection mapping

XML binary data mapping

XML binary data collection mapping

XML fragment mapping

XML fragment collection mapping

XML choice object mapping

XML choice collection mapping

XML any attribute mapping

=== How to Configure the Use of Inline Binary Data Using Java

To configure the use of inline binary data for your mapping, use the
`+XMLBinaryDataMapping+` or `+XMLBinaryDataCollectionMapping+` method
`+setShouldInlineBinaryData+`. If you set it to `+true+`, you disable
consideration for attachment handling for this mapping and indicate that
you only want inline data.

== Configuring the Use of SwaRef Type

This option is applicable to binary data mappings.

Use this option to specify that the target node of this mapping is of
type xs:swaref.

This table summarizes which XML mappings support the use of SwaRef type
configuration.

[#Table 59-8]## *_XML Mapping Support for the Use of SwaRef Type
Configuration_*

XML Mapping

Using the Workbench

Using Java

XML direct mapping

XML composite direct collection mapping

XML composite object mapping

XML composite collection mapping

XML any object mapping

XML any collection mapping

XML transformation mapping

XML object reference mapping

XML object collection mapping

XML binary data mapping

XML binary data collection mapping

XML fragment mapping

XML fragment collection mapping

XML choice object mapping

XML choice collection mapping

XML any attribute mapping

=== How to Configure the Use of SwaRef Type Using Java

To configure the use of SwaRef type for your mapping, use the
`+XMLBinaryDataMapping+` or `+XMLBinaryDataCollectionMapping+` method
`+setSwaRef+`. If you set it to `+true+`, you indicate that the target
node of this mapping is of type `+xs:swaref+`.

== Configuring the Choice Element

This option is applicable to choice mappings.

Use this option to specify an XPath and the type assocated with this
XPath.

This table summarizes which XML mappings support the choice element
configuration.

[#Table 59-9]## *_XML Mapping Support for the Choice Element
Configuration_*

XML Mapping

Using the Workbench

Using Java

XML direct mapping

XML composite direct collection mapping

XML composite object mapping

XML composite collection mapping

XML any object mapping

XML any collection mapping

XML transformation mapping

XML object reference mapping

XML object collection mapping

XML binary data mapping

XML binary data collection mapping

XML fragment mapping

XML fragment collection mapping

XML choice object mapping

XML choice collection mapping

XML any attribute mapping

=== How to Configure the Choice Element Using Java

Use the following `+XMLChoiceObjectMapping+` or
`+XMLChoiceCollectionMapping+` methods to add choice element:

* `+addChoiceElement(String xpath, Class elementType)+`
* `+addChoiceElement(String xpath, String elementTypeName)+`

'''''

_link:EclipseLink_User's_Guide_Copyright_Statement[Copyright Statement]_

Category:_EclipseLink_User's_Guide[Category: EclipseLink Userâ€™s Guide]
Category:_Release_1[Category: Release 1] Category:_Task[Category: Task]
Category:_XML[Category: XML]
