image:Elug_draft_icon.png[Image:Elug draft
icon.png,title="Image:Elug draft icon.png"] *For the latest EclipseLink
documentation, please see
http://www.eclipse.org/eclipselink/documentation/*

'''''

*TOC* Special:Whatlinkshere_Creating_an_XML_Descriptor_(ELUG)[Related
Topics]

This section explains how to create descriptor options specific to an
XML descriptor.

For information on how to create more than one type of descriptor, see
link:Creating%20a%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)[Creating a Descriptor].

After you create a descriptor, you must configure its various options
(see link:Configuring%20a%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)[Configuring a
Descriptor]) and use it to define mappings.

For complete information on the various types of mapping that
EclipseLink supports, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Mappings%20(ELUG)[Introduction to Mappings] and
link:Creating%20a%20Mapping%20(ELUG)[Creating a Mapping].

For complete information on the various types of descriptor that
EclipseLink supports, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)#Descriptor_Types[Descriptor
Types].

For more information, see the following:

* link:Introduction%20to%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)[Introduction to
Descriptors]
* link:Introduction%20to%20XML%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)[Introduction to
XML Descriptors]

== Creating an XML Descriptor

You can create an XML descriptor using the
link:#How_to_Create_an_XML_Descriptor_Using_Workbench[Workbench] or
link:#How_to_Create_an_XML_Descriptor_Using_Java[Java code]. We
recommend that you use the Workbench to create and manage your XML
descriptors.

=== How to Create an XML Descriptor Using Workbench

image:xmldesin.gif[XML descriptor icon,title="XML descriptor icon"] When
you add a class to an XML project (see
link:Configuring%20a%20Project%20(ELUG)#Configuring_Project_Classpath[Configuring
Project Classpath]), Workbench creates an XML descriptor for the class.

An XML descriptor is always a composite type.

=== How to Create an XML Descriptor Using Java

This example shows how to create an XML descriptor using Java code.

[#Example 56-1]## *_Creating an XML Descriptor in Java_*

`+XMLDescriptor descriptor = new XMLDescriptor();+`
`+descriptor.setJavaClass(YourClass.class);+`

[width="100%",cols="<100%",]
|===
|*Note:* Use the `+org.eclipse.persistence.ox.XMLDescriptor+` class. Do
not use the deprecated
`+org.eclipse.persistence.internal.xml\'\'.\'\'XMLDescriptor+` class.
|===

'''''

_link:EclipseLink_User's_Guide_Copyright_Statement[Copyright Statement]_

Category:_EclipseLink_User's_Guide[Category: EclipseLink User’s Guide]
Category:_Release_1[Category: Release 1] Category:_Task[Category: Task]
Category:_XML[Category: XML]
