image:Elug_draft_icon.png[Image:Elug draft
icon.png,title="Image:Elug draft icon.png"] *For the latest EclipseLink
documentation, please see
http://www.eclipse.org/eclipselink/documentation/*

'''''

*TOC*
Special:Whatlinkshere_Introduction_to_XML_Descriptors_(ELUG)[Related
Topics]

This section introduces options specific to an XML descriptor.

For information on descriptor concepts and features common to more than
one type of EclipseLink descriptors, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)[Introduction to
Descriptors].

== XML Descriptor Concepts

XML descriptors describe Java objects that you map to simple and complex
types defined by an XML schema document (XSD).

Using XML descriptors in an XML project, you can configure XML mappings
(see
link:Introduction%20to%20XML%20Mappings%20(ELUG)#XML_Mapping_Types[XML
Mapping Types]), in memory, to XML elements defined by an XSD.

For more information, see the following:

* link:Creating%20an%20XML%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)[Creating an XML
Descriptor]
* link:Configuring%20an%20XML%20Descriptor%20(ELUG)[Configuring an XML
Descriptor]

=== XML Descriptors and Aggregation

When working with descriptors for a parent (source) and a child (target)
objects, you have to accomplish the following:

* if the source object exists, then you must ensure that the target
object also exists;
* if the source object is destroyed, then you must ensure that the
target object is also destroyed.

For more information, see
link:Introduction%20to%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)#Descriptors_and_Aggregation[Descriptors
and Aggregation].

In your XML project, designate the descriptors for the source and target
objects to reflect this relationship as
link:#Composite_Descriptors_in_XML_Projects[Composite Descriptors in XML
Projects].

==== Composite Descriptors in XML Projects

In an XML project, descriptors are always composites.

Because XML descriptors are always composites, you can configure
inheritance for an XML descriptor without considering its type (see
link:Introduction%20to%20Descriptors%20(ELUG)#Descriptors_and_Inheritance[Descriptors
and Inheritance]).

'''''

_link:EclipseLink_User's_Guide_Copyright_Statement[Copyright Statement]_

Category:_EclipseLink_User's_Guide[Category: EclipseLink Userâ€™s Guide]
Category:_Release_1[Category: Release 1] Category:_Concept[Category:
Concept] Category:_XML[Category: XML]
