///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2022 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

    This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
    terms of the Eclipse Public License v. 2.0, which is available at
    http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0.

    This Source Code may also be made available under the following Secondary
    Licenses when the conditions for such availability set forth in the
    Eclipse Public License v. 2.0 are satisfied: GNU General Public License,
    version 2 with the GNU Classpath Exception, which is available at
    https://www.gnu.org/software/classpath/license.html.

    SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0 OR GPL-2.0 WITH Classpath-exception-2.0

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
[[CACHE001]]
=== About Cache Architecture

EclipseLink uses two types of cache: the shared *persistence unit cache*
(L2) maintains objects retrieved from and written to the data source;
and the isolated *persistence context cache* (L1) holds objects while
they participate in transactions. When a persistence context (entity
manager) successfully commits to the data source, EclipseLink updates
the persistence unit cache accordingly. Conceptually the persistence
context cache is represented by the `EntityManager` and the persistence
unit cache is represented by the `EntityManagerFactory`.

Internally, EclipseLink stores the persistence unit cache on a
EclipseLink session, and the persistence context cache on a EclipseLink
persistence unit. As link:#i1129035[Figure 8-1] shows, the persistence
unit (session) cache and the persistence context (unit of work) cache
work together with the data source connection to manage objects in a
EclipseLink application.

Read requests from the database are sent to the persistence unit
(session) cache in EclipseLink session. Write requests from the database
are sent to the EclipseLink persistence context (unit of work) cache.
The persistence unit (session) cache registers objects with the
persistence context. During a commit or merge transaction, the
persistence context cache refreshes the persistence unit cache. The
object life cycle relies on these mechanisms.

[[i1129035]][[OTLCG93796]]

*_Figure 8-1 Object Life Cycle and the EclipseLink Caches_*

image:{imagesrelativedir}/cacharch.png[Description of Figure 8-1 follows,title="Description of Figure 8-1 follows"] +
xref:{imagestextrelativedir}/cacharch.adoc[Description of "Figure 8-1 Object Life Cycle and the EclipseLink Caches"] +

[[CACHIFGC]][[OTLCG93797]]

==== Persistence Unit Cache

The persistence unit cache is a shared cache (L2) that services clients
attached to a given persistence unit. When you read objects from or
write objects to the data source using an `EntityManager` object,
EclipseLink saves a copy of the objects in the persistence unit's cache
and makes them accessible to all other processes accessing the same
persistence unit.

EclipseLink adds objects to the persistence unit cache from the
following:

* The data store, when EclipseLink executes a read operation
* The persistence context cache, when a persistence context successfully
commits a transaction

EclipseLink defines three cache isolation levels: Isolated, Shared, and
Protected. For more information on these levels, see
link:#CDEEGICF[Shared, Isolated, Protected, Weak, and Read-only Caches.]

There is a separate persistence unit cache for each unique persistence
unit name. Although the cache is conceptually stored with the
`EntityManagerFactory`, two factories with the same persistence unit
name will share the same cache (and effectively be the same persistence
unit instance). If the same persistence unit is deployed in two separate
applications in Jakarta EE, their full persistence unit name will
normally still be unique, and they will use separate caches. Certain
persistence unit properties, such as data-source, database URL, user,
and tenant id can affect the unique name of the persistence unit, and
result in separate persistence unit instances and separate caches. The
`eclipselink.session.name` persistence unit property can be used to
force two persistence units to resolve to the same instance and share a
cache.

[[OTLCG93798]]

[[sthref55]]

==== Persistence Context Cache

The persistence context cache is an isolated cache (L1) that services
operations within an EntityManager. It maintains and isolates objects
from the persistence unit cache, and writes changed or new objects to
the persistence unit cache after the persistence context commits changes
to the data source.

NOTE: Only committed changes are merged into the shared persistence unit
cache, flush or other operations do not affect the persistence unit
cache until the transaction is committed.

The life-cycle for the persistence context cache differs between
application managed, and container managed persistence contexts. The
persistence context (unit of work) cache services operations within the
persistence unit. It maintains and isolates objects from the persistence
context (session) cache, and writes changed or new objects to the
persistence context cache after the persistence unit commits changes to
the data source.

[[OTLCG94324]]

[[sthref56]]

===== Application Managed Persistence Contexts

An application managed persistence context is created by the application
from an `EntityManagerFactory`. The application managed persistence
context's cache will remain until the `EntityManager` is closed or
`clear()` is called. It is important to keep application managed
persistence units short lived, or to make use of `clear()` to avoid the
persistence context cache from growing too big, or from becoming out of
sync with the persistence unit cache and the database. Typically a
separate `EntityManager` should be created for each transaction or
request.

An extended persistence context has the same caching behavior as an
application managed persistence context, even if it is managed by the
container.

EclipseLink also supports a `WEAK` reference mode option for long lived
persistence contexts, such as two-tier applications. See
link:#CDEJAHDJ[Weak Reference Mode.]

[[OTLCG94325]]

[[sthref57]]

===== Container Managed Persistence Contexts

A container managed persistence context is typically injected into a
`SessionBean` or other managed object by a Jakarta EE container, or
frameworks such as Spring. The container managed persistence context's
cache will only remain for the duration of the transaction. Entities
read in a transaction will become detached after the completion of the
transaction and will require merging or editing in subsequent
transactions.

NOTE: EclipseLink supports accessing an entity's LAZY relationships after the
persistence context has been closed.

[[CDEEGICF]][[OTLCG94326]]

==== Shared, Isolated, Protected, Weak, and Read-only Caches

EclipseLink defines three cache isolation levels. The cache isolation
level defines how caching for an entity is performed by the persistence
unit and the persistence context. The cache isolation levels can be set
with the `isolation` attribute on the `@Cache` annotation. the possible
values of the isolation attribute are:

* `isolated`—entities are only cached in the persistence context, not in
the persistence unit. See link:#CDEBIHCH[Isolated Cache.]
* `shared`—entities are cached both in the persistence context and
persistence unit, read-only entities are shared and only cached in the
persistence unit. See link:#CDEEIBAC[Shared Cache.]
* `protected`—entities are cached both in the persistence context and
persistence unit, read-only entities are isolated and cached in the
persistence unit and persistence context. See link:#CDEHCDJD[Protected
Cache.]

[[CDEBIHCH]][[OTLCG94327]]

===== Isolated Cache

The isolated cache (L1) is the cache stored in the persistence context.
It is a transactional or user session based cache. Setting the cache
isolation to `isolated` for an entity disables its shared cache. With an
isolated cache all queries and find operations will access the database
unless the object has already been read into the persistence context and
refreshing is not used.

Use a isolated cache to do the following:

* avoid caching highly volatile data in the shared cache
* achieve serializable transaction isolation

Each persistence context owns an initially empty isolated cache. The
persistence context's isolated cache is discarded when the persistence
context is closed, or the `EntityManager.clear()` operation is used.

When you use an `EntityManager` to read an isolated entity, the
`EntityManager` reads the entity directly from the database and stores
it in the persistence context's isolated cache. When you read a
read-only entity it is still stored in the isolated cache, but is not
change tracked.

The persistence context can access the database using a connection pool
or an exclusive connection. The persistence unit property
`eclipselink.jdbc.exclusive-connection.mode` can be used to use an
exclusive connection. Using an exclusive connection provides improved
user-based security for reads and writes. Specific queries can also be
configured to use the persistence context's exclusive connection.

NOTE: If an `EntityManager` contains an exclusive connection, you must close
the `EntityManager` when you are finished using it. We do not recommend
relying on the finalizer to release the connection when the
`EntityManager` is garbage-collected. If you are using a managed
persistence context, then you do not need to close it.

[[CDEEIBAC]][[OTLCG94328]]

===== Shared Cache

The shared cache (L2) is the cache stored in the persistence unit. It is
a shared object cache for the entire persistence unit. Setting the cache
isolation to `shared` for an entity enables its shared cache. With a
shared cache queries and find operations will resolve against the shared
cache unless refreshing is used.

Use a shared cache to do the following:

* improve performance by avoiding database access when finding or
querying an entity by Id or index;
* improve performance by avoiding database access when accessing an
entity's relationships;
* preserve object identity across persistence contexts for read-only
entities.

When you use an `EntityManager` to find a shared entity, the
`EntityManager` first checks the persistence unit's shared cache. If the
entity is not in the persistence unit's shared cache, it will be read
from the database and stored in the persistence unit's shared cache, a
copy will also be stored in the persistence context's isolated cache.
Any query not by Id, and not by an indexed attribute will first access
the database. For each query result row, if the object is already in the
shared cache, the shared object (with its relationships) will be used,
otherwise a new object will be built from the row and put into the
shared cache, and a copy will be put into the isolated cache. The
isolated copy is always returned, unless read-only is used. For
read-only the shared object is returned as the isolated copy is not
required.

The size and memory usage of the shared cache depends on the entities
cache type. attributes on the `@Cache` annotation can also be used to
invalidate or clear the cache.

[[CDEHCDJD]][[OTLCG94329]]

===== Protected Cache

The protected cache option allows for shared objects to reference
isolated objects. Setting the cache isolation to `protected` for an
entity enables its shared cache. The protected option is mostly the same
as the shared option, except that protected entities can have
relationships to isolated entities, whereas shared cannot.

Use a protected cache to do the following:

* improve performance by avoiding database access when finding or
querying an entity by Id or index
* improve performance by avoiding database access when accessing an
entity's relationships to shared entities
* ensure read-only entities are isolated to the persistence context
* allow relationships to isolated entities

Protected entities have the same life-cycle as shared entities, except
for relationships, and read-only. Protected entities relationships to
shared entities are cached in the shared cache, but their relationships
to isolated entities are isolated and not cached in the shared cache.
The `@Noncacheable` annotation can also be used to disable caching of a
relationship to shared entities. Protected entities that are read-only
are always copied into the isolated cache, but are not change tracked.

[[CDEJAHDJ]][[OTLCG94330]]

===== Weak Reference Mode

EclipseLink offers a specialized persistence context cache for
long-lived persistence contexts. Normally it is best to keep persistence
contexts short-lived, such as creating a new `EntityManager` per
request, or per transaction. This is referred to as a stateless model.
This ensures the persistence context does not become too big, causing
memory and performance issues. It also ensures the objects cached in the
persistence context do not become stale or out of sync with their
committed state.

Some two-tier applications, or stateful models require long-lived
persistence contexts. EclipseLink offers a special weak reference mode
option for these types of applications. A weak reference mode maintains
weak references to the objects in the persistence context. This allows
the objects to garbage-collected if not referenced by the application.
This helps prevent the persistence context from becoming too big,
reducing memory usage and improving performance. Any new, removed or
changed objects will be held with strong references until a commit
occurs.

A weak reference mode can be configured through the
`eclipselink.persistence-context.reference-mode` persistence unit
property. The following options can be used:

* `HARD`—This is the default, weak references are not used. The
persistence context will grow until cleared or closed.
* `WEAK`—Weak references are used. Unreferenced unchanged objects will
be eligible for garbage collection. Objects that use deferred change
tracking will not be eligible for garbage collection.
* `FORCE_WEAK`—Weak references are used. Unreferenced, unchanged objects
will be eligible for garbage collection. Changed (but unreferenced)
objects that use deferred change tracking will also be eligible for
garbage collection, causing any changes to be lost.

[[OTLCG94331]]

[[sthref58]]

===== Read-Only Entities

An entity can be configured as read-only using the `@ReadOnly`
annotation or the `read-only` XML attribute. A read-only entity will not
be tracked for changes and any updates will be ignored. Read-only
entities cannot be persisted or removed. A read-only entity must not be
modified, but EclipseLink does not currently enforce this. Modification
to read-only objects can corrupt the persistence unit cache.

Queries can also be configured to return read-only objects using the
`eclipselink.read-only` query hint.

A `shared` entity that is read-only will return the shared instance from
queries. The same entity will be returned from all queries from all
persistence contexts. Shared read-only entities will never be copied or
isolated in the persistence context. This improves performance by
avoiding the cost of copying the object, and tracking the object for
changes. This both reduces memory, reduces heap usage, and improves
performance. Object identity is also maintained across the entire
persistence unit for read-only entities, allowing the application to
hold references to these shared objects.

An `isolated` or `protected` entity that is read-only will still have an
isolated copy returned from the persistence context. This gives some
improvement in performance and memory usage because it does not track
the object for changes, but it is not as significant as `shared`
entities.
