///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2022 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

    This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
    terms of the Eclipse Public License v. 2.0, which is available at
    http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0.

    This Source Code may also be made available under the following Secondary
    Licenses when the conditions for such availability set forth in the
    Eclipse Public License v. 2.0 are satisfied: GNU General Public License,
    version 2 with the GNU Classpath Exception, which is available at
    https://www.gnu.org/software/classpath/license.html.

    SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0 OR GPL-2.0 WITH Classpath-exception-2.0

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
[[ELWLS001]]
=== Introduction to the Solution

WebLogic Server is a scalable, enterprise-ready Java Platform,
Enterprise Edition (Jakarta EE platform) application server. WebLogic
Server's complete implementation of the Jakarta EE 6 specification
provides a standard set of APIs for creating distributed Java
applications that can access a wide variety of services, such as
databases, messaging services, and connections to external enterprise
systems. In addition to the Jakarta EE implementation, WebLogic Server
enables enterprises to deploy critical applications in a robust, secure,
highly available, and scalable environment. These features allow
enterprises to configure clusters of WebLogic Server instances to
distribute load, and provide extra capacity in case of hardware or other
failures. For more details about these and other WebLogic Server
features, see _Introduction to WebLogic Server_.

EclipseLink provides APIs and a run-time environment for implementing
the persistence layer of Jakarta EE applications (as well as Java SE
applications).

==== Advantages to Using EclipseLink with WebLogic Server

While WebLogic Server can use other persistence providers and
EclipseLink can be used with other application servers, using WebLogic
Server with EclipseLink provides a number of advantages:

* EclipseLink is the default persistence provider for WebLogic Server
domains, with support for JPA 2.1.
* The EclipseLink implementation of Java Architecture for XML Binding
(JAXB) is the default JAXB implementation in WebLogic Server.
EclipseLink fully implements JAXB and also includes other advanced
features. By default, you can take advantage of EclipseLink JAXB in Java
API for XML Web Services (JAX-WS) and Java API for RESTful Web Services
(JAX-RS) applications.
* EclipseLink logging integration in WebLogic Server provides a
comprehensive, integrated logging infrastructure. See
xref:{relativedir}/tlandwls002.adoc#BABIIEHD[Task 4: Use or Reconfigure the Logging
Integration.]

>

This graphic shows how WebLogic Server, EclipseLink, Coherence and
TopLink Grid are related to each other and to the data source(s). A box
representing WebLogic Suite contains Coherence and a box containing
WebLogic Server, which contains EclipseLink, which contains TopLink Grid
and EclipseLink. Above this box is a box containing JDeveloper, which
points to EclipseLink and EclipseLink. Below the box is the Oracle
Database, which points to EclipseLink and WebLogic Server.
