image:Elug_draft_icon.png[Image:Elug draft
icon.png,title="Image:Elug draft icon.png"] *For the latest EclipseLink
documentation, please see
http://www.eclipse.org/eclipselink/documentation/*

'''''

*TOC*
Special:Whatlinkshere_Packaging_and_Deploying_EclipseLink_JPA_Applications_(ELUG)[Related
Topics]

== Packaging an EclipseLink JPA Application

Packaging means assembling all parts of the application in a way that
can be correctly interpreted and used by the infrastructure when the
application is deployed into an application server or run in a
stand-alone JVM.

Once you chose a packaging strategy, place the `+persistence.xml+` file
in the `+META-INF+` directory of the archive of your choice.

In a Java EE environment, the most efficient way to package your
application is to use a tool, such as JDeveloper or Eclipse. Using OC4J,
it is possible to skip the packaging step and deploy from your working
directories using expanded deployment.

To package your EclipseLink JPA application, you need to configure the
link:Developing%20Applications%20Using%20EclipseLink%20JPA%20(ELUG)#Persistence_Unit[persistence
unit] during the creation of the
link:Introduction%20to%20Java%20Persistence%20API%20(ELUG)#persistence.xml_File[`+persistence.xml+`
file]. Define each persistence unit in a `+persistence-unit+` element in
the `+persistence.xml+` file.

For more information, see the following:

* Chapter 6 "`Entity Packaging`" of the
http://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=220[JPA Specification]
* link:Packaging%20a%20EclipseLink%20Application%20(ELUG)[Packaging an
EclipseLink Application]

=== How to Specify the Persistence Unit Name

If you are developing your application in a Java EE environment, ensure
that the persistence unit name is unique within each module. For
example, you can define only one persistence unit with the name
`+"EmployeeService"+` in an `+emp_ejb.jar+` file. The following example
shows how to define the name of the persistence unit:

[source,xml]
----
 <persistence-unit name="EmployeeService">
----

For more information, see Section 6.2.1.1 "`name`" of the
http://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=220[JPA Specification].

=== How to Specify the Transaction Type, Persistence Provider and Data Source

If you are developing your application in a Java EE environment, accept
the default transaction type (see Section 6.2.1.2 "`transaction-type`"
of the http://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=220[JPA Specification])–JTA (see
link:Introduction%20to%20Java%20Persistence%20API%20(ELUG)#JTA_Transaction_Management[JTA
Transaction Management]), and for the persistence provider setting, set
the persistence provider in a `+provider+` element (see Section 6.2.1.2
"`provider`" of the http://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=220[JPA
Specification]). Specify the data source in a `+jta-data-source+`
element, as the following example shows:

[source,xml]
----
 <persistence-unit name="EmployeeService">
     <jta-data-source>jdbc/EmployeeServiceDS</jta-data-source>
 </persistence-unit>
----

Typically, you would use the JNDI access to the data source. Make this
data source available by configuring it in a server-specific
configuration file or management console.

For more information, see the following sections of the
http://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=220[JPA Specification]:

* Section 6.2.1.2 "`transaction-type`"
* Section 6.2.1.4 "`provider`"
* Section 6.2.1.5 "`jta-data-source, non-jta-data-source`"

=== How to Specify Mapping Files

Apply the metadata to the persistence unit. This metadata is a union of
all the mapping files and the annotations (if there is no
`+xml-mapping-metadata-complete+` element). If you use one mapping
link:Introduction%20to%20Java%20Persistence%20API%20(ELUG)#Metadata_Annotations_and_ORM.xml_File[`+orm.xml+`
file]) for your metadata, and place this file in a `+META-INF+`
directory on the classpath, then you do not need to explicitly list it,
because the EclipseLink persistence provider will automatically search
for this file and use it. If you named your mapping files differently or
placed them in a different location, then you must list them in the
`+mapping-file+` elements in the `+persistence.xml+` file, as the
following example shows:

[source,xml]
----
 <persistence-unit name="EmployeeService">
     <jta-data-source>jdbc/EmployeeServiceDS</jta-data-source>
     <mapping-file>META-INF/employee_service_queries.xml</mapping-file>
 </persistence-unit>
----

Note that the `+orm.xml+` file is not listed in the previous example,
because the persistence provider finds it by default.

For more information, see the following:

* Section 6.2.1.6 "`mapping-file, jar-file, class,
exclude-unlisted-classes`" of the
http://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=220[JPA Specification]

=== How to Specify Managed Classes

Typically, you put all of the entities and other managed classes in a
single JAR file, along with the `+persistence.xml+` file in the
`+META-INF+` directory, and one or more mapping files (when you use XML
mapping).

At the time EclipseLink persistence provider processes the persistence
unit, it determines which set of entities, mapped superclasses, and
embedded objects each particular persistence unit will manage.

At deployment time, EclipseLink persistence provider may obtain managed
classes from any of the four sources. A managed class will be included
if it is one of the following:

* Local classes: the classes annotated with `+@Entity+` (see Section 8.1
"`Entity`" of the http://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=220[JPA
Specification]),
link:Introduction%20to%20EclipseLink%20JPA%20(ELUG)#@MappedSuperclass[`+@MappedSuperclass+`]
or
link:Introduction%20to%20EclipseLink%20JPA%20(ELUG)#@Embeddable[`+@Embeddable+`]
in the deployment unit in which its `+persistence.xml+` file was
packaged.

[width="100%",cols="<100%",]
|===
|*Note:* If you are deploying your application in the Java EE
environment, not EclipseLink persistence provider, but the application
server itself will discover local classes. In the Java SE environment,
you can use the `+exclude-unlisted-classes+` element (see Section
6.2.1.6 "`mapping-file, jar-file, class, exclude-unlisted-classes`" of
the http://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=220[JPA Specification]) to enable
this functionality–EclipseLink persistence provider will attempt to find
local classes if you set this element to `+false+`.
|===

* Classes in mapping files: the classes that have mapping entries, such
as `+entity+` (see Section 10.1.2.10 "`entity`" of the
http://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=220[JPA Specification]),
`+mapped-superclass+` (see Section 10.1.2.11 "`mapped-superclass`" of
the http://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=220[JPA Specification]) or
`+embeddable+` (see Section 10.1.2.12 "`embeddable`" of the
http://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=220[JPA Specification]), in an XML
mapping file. If these classes are in the deployed component archive,
then they will already be on the classpath. If they are not, you must
explicitly include them in the classpath.

* Explicitly listed classes: the classes that are listed as `+class+`
elements in the `+persistence.xml+` file. Consider listing classes
explicitly if one of the following applies:
** there are additional classes that are not local to the deployment
unit JAR. For example, there is an embedded object class in a different
JAR that you want to use in an entity in your persistence unit. You
would list the fully qualified class in the `+class+` element in the
`+persitence.xml+` file. You would also need to ensure that the JAR or
directory that contains the class is on the classpath of the deployed
component (by adding it to the manifest classpath of the deployment JAR,
for example);
** you want to exclude one or more classes that may be annotated as an
entity. Even though the class may be annotated with the `+@Entity+`
annotation, you do not want it treated as an entity in this particular
deployed context. For example, you may want to use this entity as a
transfer object and it needs to be part of the deployment unit. In this
case, in the Java EE environment, you have to use the
`+exclude-unlisted-classes+` element (see Section 6.2.1.6
"`mapping-file, jar-file, class, exclude-unlisted-classes`" of the
http://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=220[JPA Specification]) of the
`+persistence.xml+` file–the use of the default setting of this element
prevents local classes from being added to the persistence unit;
** you plan to run your application in the Java SE environment, and you
list your classes explicitly because that is the only portable way to do
so in Java SE (see link:#How_to_Perform_an_Application_Bootstrapping[How
to Perform an Application Bootstrapping]).
* Additional JAR files of managed classes: the annotated classes in a
named JAR file listed in a `+jar-file+` element (see Section 6.2.1.6
"`mapping-file, jar-file, class, exclude-unlisted-classes`" of the
http://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=220[JPA Specification]) in the
`+persistence.xml+` file. You have to ensure that any JAR file listed in
the `+jar-file+` element is on the classpath of the deployment unit. Do
so by manually adding the JAR file to the manifest classpath of the
deployment unit. Note that you must list the JAR file in the
`+jar-file+` element relative to the parent of the JAR file in which the
`+persistence.xml+` file is located. This matches what you would put in
the classpath entry in the manifest file. The following example shows
the structure of the `+emp.ear+` EAR file:

`+emp.ear+` `+    emp-ejb.jar+` `+        META-INF/persistence.xml+`
`+    employee/emp-classes.jar+`
`+        examples/model/Empoyee.class+`

The following example shows the contents of the `+persistence.xml+`
file, with the `+jar-file+` element containing
"`employee/emp-classes.jar`" to reference the `+emp-classes.jar+` in the
`+employee+` directory in the EAR file:

[source,xml]
----
 <persitence-unit name="EmployeeService">
     <jta-data-source>jdbc/EmployeeServiceDS</jta-data-source>
     <jar-file>employee/emp-classes.jar</jar-file>
 </persitence-unit>
----

You may choose to use any one or a combination of these mechanisms to
include your managed classes in the persistence unit.

For more information, see
link:#How_to_Deploy_an_Application_to_Generic_Java_EE_5_Application_Servers[How
to Deploy an Application to Generic Java EE 5 Application Servers].

=== How to Add Vendor Properties

The last section in the `+persistence.xml+` file is the properties
section. The `+properties+` element (see Section 6.2.1.7 "`properties`"
of the http://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=220[JPA Specification]) gives you
the chance to supply EclipseLink persistence provider-specific settings
for the persistence unit.

This example shows how to add EclipseLink-specific properties.

[#Example 22-1]## *_Using EclipseLink Persistence Provider Properties_*

[source,xml]
----
 <persitence-unit name="EmployeeService">
     ...
     <properties>
         <property name="eclipselink.logging.level" value="FINE"/>

         <property name="eclipselink.cache.size.default" value="500"/>
     </properties>
 </persitence-unit>
----

For more information, see the following:

* link:Using%20EclipseLink%20JPA%20Extensions%20(ELUG)#What_You_May_Need_to_Know_About_Using_EclipseLink_JPA_Persistence_Unit_Properties[What
You May Need to Know About Using EclipseLink JPA Persistence Unit
Properties]
* link:Using%20EclipseLink%20JPA%20Extensions%20(ELUG)[Using EclipseLink
JPA Extensions]

=== How to Set Up the Deployment Classpath

To be accessible to the EJB JAR, WAR, or EAR file, a class or a JAR file
must be on the deployment classpath. You can achieve this in one of the
following ways:

* Put the JAR file in the manifest classpath of the EJB JAR or WAR file.
Do this by adding a classpath entry to the `+META-INF/MANIFEST.MF+` file
in the JAR or WAR file. You may specify one or more directories or JAR
files, separating them by spaces. The following example shows how the
manifest file classpath entry adds the `+employee/emp-classes.jar+` file
and the `+employee/classes+` directory to the classpath of the JAR file
that contains the manifest file:

`+Class-Path: employee/emp-classes.jar employee/classes+`

* Place the JAR file in the library directory of the EAR file–this will
make this JAR file available on the application classpath and accessible
by all of the modules deployed within the EAR file. By default, this
would be the `+lib+` directory of the EAR file, although you may
configure it to be any directory in the EAR file using the
`+library-directory+` element in the `+application.xml+` deployment
descriptor. The following example shows the `+application.xml+` file:

`+<application ...>+` `+    ...+` `+    +``+myDir/jars+`

=== What You May Need to Know About Persistence Unit Packaging Options

Java EE allows for persistence support in a variety of packaging
configurations. You can deploy your application to the following module
types:

* EJB modules: you can package your entities in an EJB JAR. When
defining a persistence unit in an EJB JAR, the `+persistence.xml+` file
is not optional–you must create and place it in the `+META-INF+`
directory of the JAR alongside the deployment descriptor, if it exists.
* Web modules: you can use WAR file to package your entities. In this
case, place the `+persistence.xml+` file in the
`+WEB-INF/classes/META-INF+` directory. Since the `+WEB-INF/classes+`
directory is automatically on the classpath of the WAR, specify the
mapping file relative to that directory.
* Persistence archives: a persistence archive is a JAR that contains a
`+persistence.xml+` file in its `+META-INF+` directory and the managed
classes for the persistence unit defined by the `+persistence.xml+`
file. Use a persistence archive if you want to allow multiple components
in different Java EE modules to share or access a persistence unit. The
following example shows how to package entities in a persistence
archive:

`+emp.ear+` `+    emp-persitence.jar+`
`+        META-INF/persistence.xml+` `+        META-INF/orm.xml+`
`+        examples/model/Employee.class+`
`+        examples/model/Phone.class+`
`+        examples/model/Address.class+`
`+        examples/model/Department.class+`
`+        examples/model/Project.class+`

Once you created a persistence archive, you can place it in either the
root or the application library directory of the EAR. Alternatively, you
can place the persistence archive in the `+WEB-INF/lib+` directory of a
WAR. This will make the persistence unit accessible only to the classes
inside the WAR, but it enables the decoupling of the definition of the
persistence unit from the web archive itself.

For more information, see Section 6.2 "`Persistence Unit Packaging`" of
the http://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=220[JPA Specification].

=== What You May Need to Know About the Persistence Unit Scope

You can define any number of persistence units in single
`+persistence.xml+` file. The following are the rules for using defined
and packaged persistence units:

* Persistence units are accessible only within the scope of their
definition.
* Persistence units names must be unique within their scope.

For more information, see Section 6.2.2 "`Persistence Unit Scope`" of
the http://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=220[JPA Specification].

=== How to Perform an Application Bootstrapping

Outside of a container, use the `+createEntityManagerFactory+` method of
the `+javax.persistence.Persistence+` class to create an entity manager
factory. This method accepts a `+Map+` of properties and the name of the
persistence unit. The properties that you pass to this method are
combined with those that you already specified in the
`+persistence.xml+` file. They may be additional properties or they may
override the value of a property that you specified previously.

[width="100%",cols="<100%",]
|===
|*Note:* This is a convenient way to set properties obtained from a
program input, such as the command line.
|===

This example shows how to take the user name and password properties
from the command line and pass them to the EclipseLink persistence
provider when creating the `+EntityManagerFactory+`.

[#Example 22-2]## *_Using Command-Line Persistence Properties_*

[source,java]
----
 public class EmployeeService {

     public static void main (String[] args) {
         Map props = new HashMap();
         props.put("eclipselink.jdbc.user", args[0]);
         props.put("eclipselink.jdbc.password", args[1]);
         EntityManagerFactory emf = Persistence.createEntityManagerFactory("EmployeeService", props);
         ...
         emf.close();
     }
 }
----

For more information, see the following:

* Section 7.2 "`Bootstrapping in Java SE Environments`" of the
http://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=220[JPA Specification]
* link:Introduction%20to%20Java%20Persistence%20API%20(ELUG)#Application-Managed_Entity_Manager[Application-Managed
Entity Manager]

[#Deploying an EclipseLink JPA Application]##

== Deploying an EclipseLink JPA Application

Deployment is the process of getting the application into an execution
environment and running it.

For more information, see the following:

* link:#Packaging_a_EclipseLink_JPA_Application[Packaging an EclipseLink
JPA Application]
* link:#How_to_Specify_Managed_Classes[How to Specify Managed Classes]
* link:Creating%20EclipseLink%20Files%20for%20Deployment%20(ELUG)[Creating
EclipseLink Files for Deployment]
* link:Deploying%20a%20EclipseLink%20Application%20(ELUG)[Deploying an
EclipseLink Application]
* Chapter 7 "`Container and Provider Contracts for Deployment and
Bootstrapping`" of the http://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=220[JPA
Specification]

=== How to Deploy an Application to OC4J

After packaging, you deploy your EclipseLink JPA application to OC4J to
execute it and make it available to end users.

You can deploy from a Java EE development tool such as
link:EclipseLink_Examples_JPA#Integrating_EclipseLink_JPA_with_an_IDE[JDeveloper]
or link:EclipseLink_Examples_JPA_OC4J_Web_Tutorial[Eclipse].

=== How to Deploy an Application to Generic Java EE 5 Application Servers

Each persistence unit deployed into a Java EE container consists of a
single `+persistence.xml+` file, any number of mapping files, and any
number of class files.

[width="100%",cols="<100%",]
|===
|*Note:* If you are deploying to JBoss 4.2 server, refer to
link:Integrating%20EclipseLink%20with%20an%20Application%20Server%20(ELUG)#How_to_Configure_JPA_Application_Deployment_to_JBoss_4.2_Application_Server[How
to Configure JPA Application Deployment to JBoss 4.2 Application
Server].
|===

'''''

_link:EclipseLink_User's_Guide_Copyright_Statement[Copyright Statement]_

Category:_EclipseLink_User's_Guide[Category: EclipseLink User’s Guide]
Category:_Release_1[Category: Release 1] Category:_Task[Category: Task]
Category:_JPA[Category: JPA]
